PAGE 2

leaves with us. Miranda is not going
far. She will be working for the Com-
mittee on Appropriations under my
dear friend and fellow Oklahoman,
Chairman TOMCOLE.
As she embarks on her next chapter,
I have no doubt her career will con-
tinue to flourish, inspiring us all. I
thank Miranda for her service and for
making Oklahoma stronger.
f
RECOGNIZING MAGGIE
MANCINELLI-CAHILL
(Mr. TONKO asked and was given
permission to address the House for 1
minute and to revise and extend his re-
marks.)
Mr. TONKO. Mr. Speaker, I rise
today to recognize the tremendous con-
tributions of Maggie Mancinelli-Cahill,
Producing Artistic Director of the Cap-
ital Repertory Theatre, as she retires
from her storied career bringing the
joy of live theater to patrons across
the capital region and beyond.
Since 1995, Maggie has directed more
than 125 productions, workshops, and
readings, helping to cement the rep-
ertory as a treasured cornerstone of
both the city of Albany and the wider
theater community. The warmth of her
personality would always shine
through as she enthusiastically wel-
comed audiences at the start of so
many shows.
Throughout her three decades at the
repertory, Maggie nurtured local art-
ists and performers, while sharing her
own illustrious talents and creativity
with a grateful audience.
Countless local organizations have
recognized Maggie’s abundance of vi-
sion, resilience, and, yes, optimism.
While the curtain is closing on this act
of Maggie’s brilliant career, I know her
theatrical artistry will continue to in-
spire our community for years to come.
Bravo, Maggie, bravo. Congratula-
tions.
f
REMEMBERING DUANE ANKNEY
(Mr. DOWNING asked and was given
permission to address the House for 1
minute and to revise and extend his re-
marks.)
Mr. DOWNING. Mr. Speaker, I rise
today to honor the life and legacy of
former Montana State Senator Duane
Ankney, known to many as the ‘‘King
of Coal.’’
Elected to the State legislature in
2006 from Colstrip, Montana, which he
proudly called the heartbeat of eastern
Montana, Senator Ankney was a stead-
fast advocate for the working men and
women who power our State. He under-
stood the value of coal not just as a re-
source but a way of life for thousands
of Montanans.
Throughout his service, he cham-

Today, we remember him as more
than a legislator. We remember him as
a fighter. He was a friend and a cham-
pion to the people he served.
f
PROTECTING AMERICA’S
INFRASTRUCTURE
(Mr. SHREVE asked and was given
permission to address the House for 1
minute and to revise and extend his re-
marks.)
Mr. SHREVE. Mr. Speaker, our De-
partment of Defense is charged with
protecting America’s critical infra-
structure. Our current standards are
simply insufficient. The United States
is vulnerable to attack on our defense
infrastructure by our adversaries, as
we were reminded of today like no
other.
Fortifying our defense critical infra-
structure is imperative, and funding it
is our job. My amendment No. 269 di-
rects a comprehensive review of cur-
rent interagency coordination of DOD
implementation to ensure physical and
cybersecurity for our air, rail, and
maritime infrastructure that underpins
our military readiness.
My amendment No. 270 directs our
Secretary of State with developing a
comprehensive strategy to counter
Iran’s and Hezbollah’s missionary and
propaganda operations in Latin Amer-
ica.
Iran’s goal in Latin America is to ex-
port its ideology to the region, so as to
cultivate anti-Americanism in our
Western Hemisphere. There must be a
clear plan and strategy to counter
their malign influence.
Mr. Speaker, these two amendments
were unanimously passed yesterday
and included in the National Defense
Authorization Act, and I thank my col-
leagues for supporting these amend-
ments.
f
b 0910
STOP ILLEGAL ENTRY ACT OF 2025
Mr. KNOTT. Mr. Speaker, pursuant
to House Resolution 682, I call up the
bill (H.R. 3486) to amend the Immigra-
tion and Nationality Act to increase
penalties for individuals who illegally
enter and reenter the United States
after being removed, and for other pur-
poses, and ask for its immediate con-
sideration in the House.
The Clerk read the title of the bill.
The SPEAKER pro tempore (Mr.
GOLDMAN of Texas). Pursuant to House
Resolution 682, the amendment in the
nature of a substitute recommended by
the Committee on the Judiciary, print-
ed in the bill, modified by the amend-
ment printed in part B of House Report
119–255, is adopted and the bill, as

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.
This Act may be cited as the ‘‘Stop Illegal
Entry Act of 2025’’.
SEC. 2. COMMISSION OF CRIMES BY ALIENS UN-
LAWFULLY PRESENT IN THE UNITED
STATES.
Section 275 of the Immigration and Nation-
ality Act (8 U.S.C. 1325) is amended—
(1) in subsection (a), by striking ‘‘2 years’’
and inserting ‘‘5 years’’; and
(2) by adding at the end the following:
‘‘(e) Any alien—
‘‘(1) who—
‘‘(A) enters or attempts to enter the United
States at any time or place other than as des-
ignated by immigration officers,
‘‘(B) eludes examination or inspection by im-
migration officers, or
‘‘(C) attempts to enter or obtains entry to the
United States by a willfully false or misleading
representation or the willful concealment of a
material fact, and
‘‘(2) thereafter is convicted of any crime pun-
ishable by more than 1 year of imprisonment,
may be fined under title 18, United States Code,
and shall be imprisoned not less than 5 years
and may be imprisoned for any term of years or
for life.’’.
SEC. 3. INCREASED PENALTIES FOR REENTRY OF
REMOVED ALIEN.
Section 276 of the Immigration and Nation-
ality Act (8 U.S.C. 1326) is amended—
(1) by redesignating subsections (c) and (d) as
subsections (d) and (e), respectively;
(2) by striking subsections (a) and (b) and in-
serting the following:
‘‘(a) IN GENERAL.—Subject to subsections (b)
and (c), any alien who—
‘‘(1) has been denied admission, excluded, de-
ported, removed, or has departed the United
States while an order of exclusion, deportation,
or removal is outstanding; and
‘‘(2) thereafter enters, attempts to enter, or is
at any time found in, the United States, un-
less—
‘‘(A) prior to the alien’s reembarkation at a
place outside the United States or the alien’s
application for admission from foreign contig-
uous territory, the Secretary of Homeland Secu-
rity has expressly consented to such alien’s re-
applying for admission; or
‘‘(B) with respect to an alien previously de-
nied admission and removed, such alien estab-
lishes that the alien was not required to obtain
such advance consent under this or any prior
Act,
shall be fined under title 18, United States Code,
imprisoned not more than 10 years, or both.
‘‘(b) CRIMINAL PENALTIES FOR REENTRY OF
CERTAINREMOVEDALIENS.—
‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—Notwithstanding the pen-
alty under subsection (a), and except as pro-
vided in subsection (c), an alien described in
subsection (a)—
‘‘(A) who was convicted before such removal
or departure of 3 or more misdemeanors involv-
ing drugs, crimes against the person, or both
shall be fined under title 18, United States Code,
imprisoned not more than 15 years, or both;
‘‘(B) who has been excluded from the United
States pursuant to section 235(c) because the
alien was inadmissible under section
212(a)(3)(B) or who has been removed from the
United States pursuant to the provisions of title
V, and who thereafter, without the permission
of the Secretary of Homeland Security, enters
the United States, or attempts to do so, shall be
fined under title 18, United States Code, and im-
prisoned for a period of 10 years, which sentence
shall not run concurrently with any other sen-
tence;
‘‘(C) who was removed from the United States

PAGE 3

‘‘(D) who has been denied admission, ex-
cluded, deported, or removed 3 or more times
and thereafter enters, attempts to enter, or is at
any time found in the United States, shall be
fined under title 18, United States Code, impris-
oned not more than 10 years, or both.
‘‘(2) REMOVAL DEFINED.—In this subsection
and in subsection (c), the term ‘removal’ in-
cludes any agreement in which an alien stipu-
lates to removal during (or not during) a crimi-
nal trial under either Federal or State law.
‘‘(c) MANDATORY MINIMUM CRIMINAL PEN-
ALTY FOR REENTRY OF CERTAIN REMOVED
ALIENS.—Notwithstanding the penalties pro-
vided in subsections (a) and (b), an alien de-
scribed in subsection (a) who was convicted be-
fore such removal or departure of—
‘‘(1) any aggravated felony;
‘‘(2) any crime defined as a felony by the rel-
evant jurisdiction (Federal, State, Tribal, or
local) of conviction; or
‘‘(3) any crime punishable by more than 1
year of imprisonment, may be fined under title
18, United States Code, and shall be imprisoned
not less than 10 years and may be imprisoned
for any term of years or for life.’’; and
(4) in subsection (d), as redesignated by para-
graph (1)—
(A) by striking ‘‘section 242(h)(2)’’ and insert-
ing ‘‘section 241(a)(4)’’; and
(B) by striking ‘‘Attorney General’’ and in-
serting ‘‘Secretary of Homeland Security’’.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The bill,
as amended, shall be debatable for 1
hour equally divided and controlled by
the chair and ranking minority mem-
ber of the Committee on the Judiciary
or their respective designees.
The gentleman from North Carolina
(Mr. KNOTT) and the gentleman from
Maryland (Mr. RASKIN) each will con-
trol 30 minutes.
The Chair recognizes the gentleman
from North Carolina.
GENERALLEAVE
Mr. KNOTT. Mr. Speaker, I ask unan-
imous consent that all Members may
have 5 legislative days in which to re-
vise and extend their remarks and to
include extraneous material on H.R.
3486.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is there
objection to the request of the gen-
tleman from North Carolina?
There was no objection.
Mr. KNOTT. Mr. Speaker, I yield my-
self such time as I may consume.
Mr. Speaker, it is my privilege to
open remarks on this important legis-
lation which holds a specific criminal
category to account, specifically those
who exploit weak border policies to
bring crime into the United States.
I certainly feel that it is appropriate,
before I begin my remarks, to note
that today is the 24th anniversary of
the September 11 attacks, and in that
same vein, Mr. Speaker, this proposed
legislation profoundly enables law en-
forcement to protect us from all
threats that seek to enter our country
illegally.
Let me begin by commending Con-
gresswoman BICE for partnering with

it, Mr. Speaker, illegal immigration
makes it worse.
What is perhaps most unfortunate is
that many of the worst offenders in
this specific category return to the
United States after being deported due
to gaps in the current immigration
law.
As a former U.S. prosecutor, I saw
how deportation alone is insufficient to
deter the committed illegal immigrant
criminal. I have investigated, tried,
and convicted many individuals who
had been deported 2 times, 3 times, 4
times, and some even beyond 10 times.
Yet, they continue to illegally return
with the sole intent—the sole intent—
to commit crime here in the United
States.
The original version of this bill, Mr.
Speaker, was drafted after a 32-year-old
woman, an American woman, was trag-
ically murdered by an illegal alien who
had five felony convictions and had
been deported multiple times from the
United States. Tragically, her case is
not an outlier. It has become far too
common.
Under the current law, we must wait
for a repeat felon, a recidivist illegal
alien, to harm another American be-
fore we can effectively punish him or
her for the crimes they seek to com-
mit.
Enough is enough.
For any illegal immigrant who has
demonstrated a clear and perverse dis-
regard for our law, this bill shows that
we will not wait for them to harm an-
other American before we punish them.
The act of returning after deportation
is a serious crime, and it should denote
serious consequences.
Further, if a person is here illegally,
commissioning and being convicted of
a felony is not a victimless crime. All
felonies have a victim.
Enough is enough.
In the current state of the law, we
must wait for an American to be
harmed before significant punishments
are issued to those who are here ille-
gally. That is the core motivation of
the changes being sought in this bill.
Candidly and specifically, if a person
is here illegally with demonstrated
criminal intent, that alone is sufficient
to be punished meaningfully in this
country.
Utilizing my own experience pros-
ecuting this specific class of criminal,
this bill implements the following com-
monsense provisions.
First, if any illegal alien is found
guilty of a State or Federal felony,
that alone qualifies the illegal alien for
a new Federal charge that will bring a
minimum of 5 years in Federal prison.
Secondly, rather than capping the
sentence for illegally reentering—
again, this is not the first attempt—il-
legally reentering the country at 2

and that illegal alien attempts to enter
the country illegally again, that will
qualify the illegal alien for a new Fed-
eral charge that carries a minimum of
10 years and up to life in Federal pris-
on.
I want to make it very clear that this
bill does nothing to remove the current
immigration authority. If a swift de-
portation is sought, it can be achieved.
If apprehension for an underlying
crime and prosecution is sought, that
is within the discretion of law enforce-
ment and the prosecutor. This merely
adds new tools with which we can fight
illegal immigrant criminals.
The premise of the bill, Mr. Speaker,
begins with the reality that anyone
who is in the country illegally is guilty
of criminal conduct. However, what
triggers the enhanced penalties is ei-
ther illegal reentry—illegal reentry—
after deportation or a felony convic-
tion within the United States.
Let me be clear to preempt some of
the concerns on the other side of the
aisle. This bill adheres to strict and
constitutionally protected due process,
requiring a conviction in a court of law
to trigger the enhanced penalties while
leaving room for discretion as the pros-
ecutor deems necessary.
Yes, we need the law. Yes, we need
deportations. Yes, we need to remove
those who are here illegally, especially
those who have committed crimes that
harm Americans. The President has
shown that these steps are essential.
However, from my firsthand experi-
ence, from my conversations with
these criminals, and from the crime
data that is all over this country, so-
phisticated criminal networks with
vast resources extend their reach into
America due to the open-border poli-
cies that the left seems so committed
to.
It is only through maintaining the
policies of this President and strength-
ening deterrence that we can ensure
that illegal immigrant criminals do
not continue to flood this country.
We must send a message to those
around the world who want to come
here to commit harm: Our tolerance
for that activity is over.
With the tools in this bill, investiga-
tors and prosecutors will be better able
to dismantle organized crime rings
across America. Most importantly,
they will employ an efficient deterrent
to anybody who seeks to enter or reen-
ter this country illegally.
b 0920
It is time for the illegal immigrant
criminals to know that we are finished
tolerating their presence with the ille-
gal activity that they engage in.
Mr. Speaker, I reserve the balance of
my time.

PAGE 4

the numbers now suggest a different
story. Roughly half of the people who
have been arrested by ICE have no vio-
lent criminal history and no criminal
history other than being undocu-
mented.
Most migrants, of course, are coming
due to poverty, insecurity, violence in
their home country, and
authoritarianism at home. In fact, the
two most common crimes committed
by people who have been detained by
ICE are being here without documenta-
tion and traffic offenses.
Now, the President has said that his
administration wants to remove and
deport people who commit crimes after
they illegally enter the country, but
the gentleman’s legislation moves in
exactly the opposite direction. If this
bill were passed into law, it would im-
prison people for long sentences, even
potentially for life, just for having en-
tered the country on an undocumented
basis, several times, as the gentleman
says.
Obviously, if someone commits a
murder or rape, they are going to be
prosecuted for murder or rape, so the
bite of this bill is with respect to peo-
ple who just keep reentering our coun-
try without permission.
Now, it would require that people
who are immediately removable and
deportable, undocumented immigrants,
must spend 5 or 10 years in over-
crowded and overburdened Bureau of
Prisons facilities in our country at a
huge cost to American taxpayers—
more than $150, and in many cases $200
a day, which comes to hundreds of mil-
lions of dollars when you multiply it
by the people that would be affected—
before they can be removed from the
country.
That is the odd part of this bill, that
we have people who have entered un-
lawfully who have no documentation to
be here. They are removable. They are
deportable, but we are insisting that
they stay here and be imprisoned and
punished here for the crime of having
entered illegally.
This would undoubtedly be good for
the owners of all the private detention
facilities and prisons who are getting
rich off of laws like this, but it would
fail the rest of us.
Under 8 U.S.C. 1325, today, entering
the U.S. without inspection is already
a misdemeanor punishable by a fine
and a sentence of up to 6 months in
prison with enhancements that can in-
crease the maximum sentence up to 2
years. Under 8 U.S.C. 1326, if you un-
lawfully reenter the country or are
found to be here in the United States
following a removal or denial of admis-
sion, this is already a felony punish-
able by up to 2 years in prison with en-
hancements that can increase the max-

years for a first offense, and then if you
reenter without documentation for up
to 5 years, and in certain cir-
cumstances, potentially up to life. You
could be held for life for a consecutive
illegal entry into our country.
The bill provides even for a potential
life sentence in Federal prison for
merely entering the country unlaw-
fully with no other criminal conduct
required. There are obviously armed
robbers and rapists and even murderers
who have done less time than that.
Obviously, we don’t want these peo-
ple entering the country illegally. That
is why the solution is to toughen the
border. We had a bipartisan com-
promise to toughen and fortify the bor-
der with the hiring of hundreds more
border officers and judges. It was com-
ing through the Senate. That was the
one at the end of 2024 that was sailing
through Congress when President
Trump decided to sink that legislation
and said, essentially, that he didn’t
want a border compromise bill for
more effective enforcement there, that
he wanted a border crisis to run
against.
There has been a consensus between
the parties for several years that man-
datory minimums do not effectively re-
duce crime and do not improve public
safety. They strip judges of their abil-
ity to exercise fact-based discretion
and impose sentences that fit the cir-
cumstances of the case, frustrating
their ability to consider mitigating and
complicating factors, imposing a one-
size-fits-all straitjacket that leads to
often disproportionate and inflexible
prison sentences.
This is why the Judicial Conference
itself opposes mandatory minimums.
This is why you don’t have judges at
the border demanding the gentleman’s
legislation. This is why the Brennan
Center opposes it. This is why Right On
Crime has opposed mandatory mini-
mums and so on.
Study after study has shown that
mandatory minimums don’t work to
deter criminal conduct. We know from
a report issued by the Department of
Justice’s National Institute of Justice
that the certainty of being caught and
quickly punished, not the severity or
length of the sentence, is what deters
criminal conduct. Increasing and man-
dating harsh, lengthy sentences will
not deter illegal reentry, but strength-
ening the border will do that.
According to The Washington Post,
the administration is actually pres-
suring Governors today to commute
the sentences of immigrants who are in
prison under the current framework
convicted of serious crimes. I am not
talking about just entering without
documentation. I am talking about se-
rious crimes. The administration is

enormous public expense for 5 years, 10
years, 15 years, in some circumstances
even for life, making the taxpayers pay
for it when they could have simply
been removed and deported, which has
been the policy of this administration.
The gentleman’s bill, which was op-
posed on a bipartisan basis in com-
mittee, is ultimately too punitive, way
too expensive, and ultimately ineffec-
tive.
I will urge my colleagues to oppose
this legislation, with all due respect to
my friend.
Mr. Speaker, I reserve the balance of
my time.
Mr. KNOTT. Mr. Speaker, I yield 2
minutes to the gentleman from North
Carolina (Mr. HARRIS).
Mr. HARRIS of North Carolina. Mr.
Speaker, I applaud my colleague, Rep-
resentative KNOTT, for bringing forth
this important legislation.
Mr. Speaker, if we reward illegals for
breaking our laws, we cannot be sur-
prised when it continues to happen.
I rise today in support of H.R. 3486,
the Stop Illegal Entry Act, legislation
to increase penalties for aliens who
commit serious crimes, as well as those
who enter illegally more than once.
We all know under the Biden admin-
istration, illegal immigrants were wel-
comed with open arms. They were
given hotel rooms, cell phones, plane
tickets, and work authorization. I am
glad to report those days are over.
House Republicans are united behind
President Trump’s efforts to secure our
border, strengthen our immigration en-
forcement, and fix our immigration
system.
Earlier this year, House Republicans
made a once-in-a-generation invest-
ment in our immigration system. We
gave our immigration officers the re-
sources they need to properly enforce
our immigration laws and carry out
necessary deportations.
Today, we are building upon that
work with this proposed law to provide
a strong deterrent against those com-
ing here illegally in the first place.
b 0930
With these enhanced punishments in
place, people will think twice before
breaking our laws and choosing to
overwhelm our immigration system.
The harsher the punishment, the more
the deterrence. That is just common
sense.
A nation that cannot control its bor-
ders cannot protect its people. This
legislation affirms the rule of law, de-
fends American families from dan-
gerous criminal aliens, and restores ac-
countability to our immigration sys-
tem.
Mr. Speaker, I urge all of my col-
leagues to support this bill.

PAGE 5

Ms. JAYAPAL. Mr. Speaker, I rise in
strong opposition to H.R. 3486.
This bill is Republicans’ latest at-
tempt to scapegoat and fearmonger
about immigrants. With President
Trump’s poll numbers tanking on im-
migration due to his kidnapping and
disappearing of immigrants and U.S.
citizens off our streets, House Repub-
licans are, once again, looking to turn
the conversation back to immigration
and the border.
I will point out the absurdity of
spending this valuable floor time on a
bill that has harsh and ineffective man-
datory minimums for immigrants
while the majority effects one of the
greatest coverups of our time, covering
up the horrific abuses of Jeffrey Ep-
stein and his network of child traf-
fickers and sexual predators.
Why not spend our time focused on
justice for the incredibly brave sur-
vivors who have spoken out against the
rich and powerful men who abused
them?
Why fight a bipartisan discharge pe-
tition from THOMAS MASSIE and RO
KHANNA to release all of the damned
files, not just the ones that the
Trump’s DOJ allows to be released?
Why not speak out against the cushy
deal that Ghislaine Maxwell just got
from Deputy Attorney General Todd
Blanche to move to a cushy prison in-
stead of serving her time as one of
Epstein’s main co-conspirators and
groomers of young girls to be abused
by Epstein and his cohort of rich and
powerful men?
Obviously, once again, my colleagues
across the aisle want to try to distract
us by returning to their tried-and-true
playbook of demonizing immigrants.
That is not actually what the Amer-
ican people want. We have seen over
and over again that the American peo-
ple actually support immigration, de-
spite all of the lies that come from the
other side.
This summer, a Gallup poll noted a
record high, 79 percent, of U.S. adults
say that immigration is a good thing
for the country. A Pew poll showed 64
percent of Americans disapprove of
President Trump’s suspension of most
asylum applications, which was ruled
unlawful in Federal court.
The American people now see that
the Trump administration has contin-
ually lied about what they are going to
do on immigration. According to a CBS
poll, a majority of Americans believe
that the Trump administration is not
prioritizing the removal of dangerous
criminals and public safety threats,
and nearly 60 percent disapprove of
how the Trump administration is using
immigration detention facilities.
This is not surprising in the least. As
the ranking member said, ICE’s own

targeting everyone that they think
they may be able to deport.
Tom Homan, the President’s so-
called border czar, said that arresting
noncriminals is ‘‘ . . . our job.’’
In Los Angeles, ICE has been racially
profiling people, indiscriminately ar-
resting and holding people, causing
fear and terror in people of every legal
status who simply look Latino or
speak Spanish or congregate on certain
corners.
Today’s bill is just more of the same
scapegoating and lying about immi-
grants. Once again, the majority im-
plies that, somehow, we don’t already
have consequences for unlawful entry
and reentry. That is absolutely false.
Current law already includes harsh
sentences and are some of the most
prosecuted laws in our country every
single year. This bill would add ridicu-
lous mandatory minimum sentences,
potentially going up to life, onto the
crimes of unlawful entry and reentry.
Mr. Speaker, this makes no sense on
multiple levels. If the administration
is seeking to deport ‘‘the worst of the
worst,’’ why put them into incarcer-
ation facilities? Perhaps this is just an-
other ploy to give private, for-profit
prison companies more money so that
they can build more facilities, make
more profit, and, ultimately, con-
tribute more to the Republican cam-
paign coffers.
In addition, as the ranking member
said in his statement, mandatory mini-
mums just do not work. We have actu-
ally seen this over and over again.
Harsh enforcement is not the answer. I
don’t know why my colleagues are hav-
ing such a hard time with this.
The first Trump administration actu-
ally tried to weaponize unlawful entry
prosecutions by separating over 5,000
children from their parents. The entire
country—Republican, Independent, and
Democrat—was horrified at this, and
the administration, ultimately, had to
abandon their family separation pol-
icy.
Still, today, over 1,000 of these kids
remain separated from their parents.
Yet, despite this despicable, absurdly
cruel policy, a 2018 study found zero—
zero statistically significant relation-
ship between the family separation pol-
icy and the number of apprehensions at
the border.
These kinds of indiscriminate, harsh
enforcement efforts are a waste of tax-
payer dollars and detrimental to the
kind of country that we are trying to
create. The U.S. already has the high-
est incarceration rate of any country
in the world, and it costs U.S. tax-
payers about $182 billion every year,
not to mention the social cost to lock
up nearly 1 percent of the adult popu-
lation. This bill would skyrocket that

Trump himself in 2018. Yet, I guess all
good policy is, once again, falling to
the feet of the divisive political rhet-
oric around immigrants and crime that
my colleagues across the aisle have
embraced as their salvo to save them
from the bleak economic picture that
our country faces today: higher jobless-
ness; Trumpflation; a host of reckless
policies, including trade wars, that
have cost the American people.
The Republican big, bad betrayal bill
is unpopular everywhere in the country
no matter how you spin it because
Americans know that kicking 17 mil-
lion Americans off of healthcare just so
you can give a $7 trillion tax break to
the wealthiest billionaire donors and
giant corporations is outrageous, and
the American people want us to roll it
back.
The SPEAKER pro tempore (Ms. DE
LA CRUZ). The time of the gentle-
woman has expired.
Mr. RASKIN. Madam Speaker, I yield
an additional 30 seconds to the gentle-
woman from Washington.
Ms. JAYAPAL. Madam Speaker, in
just 19 days, government funding ex-
pires. Right now, Americans across the
country face rural hospitals that are
closing, higher prices for back-to-
school supplies, and double-digit in-
creases in healthcare premiums. What
is the Republican majority spending
their time on? This terrible bill.
What a giant abdication of the huge
responsibility that the American peo-
ple put on us here in Congress.
Madam Speaker, I urge my col-
leagues to oppose this bill.
Mr. KNOTT. Madam Speaker, I yield
2 minutes to the gentleman from Kan-
sas (Mr. SCHMIDT).
Mr. SCHMIDT. Madam Speaker, our
colleagues on the other side think that
if they just talk about enough other
things long enough, the clock will run
out and that the American people will
forget the disaster that the policies of
the prior administration created not
just on our border but throughout our
communities in this country for the
prior 4 years.
They are mistaken. We are not going
to forget. We are not going to stop
until we fix the holes in our law that
enabled bad policies to drive through
them.
That is what this bill is about. This
bill is about focusing on the worst of
the worst. It is about focusing on those
who are not deterred under current law
by the threat of a 2-year prison sen-
tence. Perhaps it is because they are
being paid by the cartels or enabled by
the cartels, and the risk is worth it.
That is who this is aimed at. That is
why a 5- to 10-year prison sentence is
warranted, valid, and necessary.
Madam Speaker, I will share just one
story from my home State of Kansas

PAGE 6

Here is the kicker: It wasn’t his first
time in the country. It wasn’t his first
crime in our country. In 2004, he was
convicted in California of making a
terrorist threat. He was deported, and
he came back. In the years that en-
sued, he encountered law enforcement
when he committed battery, when he
committed drunk driving, and when he
committed traffic infractions. He came
back, and he stayed.
b 0940
I can’t say with certainty that if ICE
had done their job and shown up, if the
prosecutors had actually prosecuted, if
the law were tough enough, that none
of that would have happened, but I can
sure say the odds are much better that
those five people might still be alive. I
can certainly say that justice would
have been done.
This bill is a good first step. We need
to do it. It is the right thing.
Madam Speaker, I encourage all of
my colleagues to support it. Let me
just say, I hope we don’t stop here.
Let’s put this on the President’s desk.
Let’s keep going and finish the job.
Mr. RASKIN. Madam Speaker, I yield
myself such time as I may consume.
My friend and the good gentleman
from Kansas says that the legislation
is about the worst of the worst, and I
beg to differ.
The worst of the worst are already
covered by existing law. If you commit
a murder like the gruesome murder he
describes in his State, you can go to
jail for life. In many States—and I sup-
pose Kansas, but I don’t know—you are
subject to the death penalty. If you
commit rape or armed robbery, there
are laws that cover that.
Today, under section 1326, if you have
committed an aggravated felony such
as the kind he describes, you already
can be imprisoned for an additional 20
years under the immigration statute.
I understand that it might be satis-
fying for us to say we are just going to
increase all these penalties, but we are
not in any way connecting with the
worst of the worst. What we are really
doing is saying that we are going to
hold people who have done nothing
other than enter the country illegally
for much longer periods of time, for 5
years or 10 years.
Again, we see this as very wasteful in
terms of public tax dollars. If we set
aside the murderers, the rapists, and
the armed robbers, who we are going to
get under existing laws that make all
of that criminal, and you look at what
is actually happening here, it is a focus
on people who are entering the country
illegally.
We have to ask ourselves, is it eco-
nomically worthwhile for us to say
that we are so mad at those people that

the end of 2024 on toughening up the
border. We should go back and do that
rather than having people continually
come back in.
Madam Speaker, I yield 3 minutes to
the distinguished gentleman from Cali-
fornia (Mr. CORREA).
Mr. CORREA. Madam Speaker, I
strongly oppose this measure. Let me
repeat: Reentry into this country is al-
ready a felony.
Bottom line, if you are a hardcore
criminal, with or without documents,
you should be fried, period. The one
thing about this bill that is lacking is
simply this: We don’t talk about the
big magnet. What is the big magnet for
people coming into this country? Jobs.
People come to work. We need the
workers. Wisconsin dairy farmers, up
to 90 percent of those dairy workers at
those Wisconsin dairies are undocu-
mented. Undocumented workers are in
manufacturing. They are farmworkers.
They are in food processing. Who takes
care of our seniors? Mainly, undocu-
mented workers.
I ask my colleagues, is there any-
thing in this bill going out to the em-
ployers? What about when those un-
documented are deported and come
back to the U.S.? Do you say to those
employers: You are going to be doubled
down, double felony, and you are going
to go to prison for life?
That is the big issue here. Who is
going to do those jobs?
I ask my colleagues on the other
side, let’s work on immigration reform.
Let’s get some visas going for these
workers. Instead, the situation we have
right now, we tell employers to go
ahead and hire an undocumented be-
cause they don’t have any others to
hire. That is the only way they stay in
business, but when they do that, they
are essentially breaking the law.
Give them the other option. Mr. Em-
ployer, fire those undocumented, and
guess what? They will go out of busi-
ness. That is the scenario we have
right now.
Let me conclude by telling a story
about my district, as well. Mr.
Barranco, 25 years in this country, not
a traffic ticket to his name, was at the
Home Depot doing what he is supposed
to do: buy parts and do a job. He got
picked up by ICE. His son called me.
This man has three sons, and all
three are serving in the U.S. Marine
Corps. Alejandro just finished, honor-
able discharge. The two others are still
in the Marine Corps in California.
What do you tell the American public
when you tell them that the father of
three marines who took an oath to de-
fend this country, to make the ulti-
mate sacrifice for this country, we are
deporting their father because he is a
criminal?
I asked Alejandro if, at Camp Pen-
dleton, there are other marines in his

Mr. CORREA. Madam Speaker, there
are many marines right now whose par-
ents are undocumented who are ready
to lay down their lives for this coun-
try.
My colleagues on the other side of
the aisle, let’s work on immigration re-
form. This does nothing to strengthen
our country or our national defense. It
hurts our economy. Why are we going
down this path?
Let’s get serious about immigration
reform. Let’s pass some laws that en-
able workers to work legally and let
employers hire these workers legally,
as well.
Mr. KNOTT. Madam Speaker, I yield
5 minutes to the gentlewoman from
Oklahoma (Mrs. BICE).
Mrs. BICE. Madam Speaker, I rise
today in support of my legislation,
H.R. 3486, the Stop Illegal Entry Act.
Let me first start by saying I think it
is rich that we stand here on the House
floor and are lectured by the other side
of the aisle about immigration issues
when they had the last 4 years to actu-
ally address this problem. They want
to deflect, as my colleague from Kan-
sas mentioned. Let’s talk about all the
other things that have been happening
in the country instead of the actual
issue at hand.
Under the Biden administration, over
10 million illegal immigrants entered
this country. This includes countless
numbers of murderers, rapists, child
traffickers, smugglers, and individuals
from countries that support terrorism.
Customs and Border Patrol caught 400
individuals on the terrorist watch list,
leaving us the question of who else was
allowed to enter this country unde-
tected.
That is why the Stop Illegal Entry
Act is so important. The legislation
seeks to discourage migrants from
coming to the U.S. illegally and keeps
criminal aliens who disregard Federal
immigration law out of our American
communities.
It is vital that law enforcement offi-
cers and Border Patrol officers have
the tools they need to hold dangerous
criminals accountable and safeguard
our communities, and this legislation
does just that.
President Trump has delivered on his
promise to secure the border, and this
legislation provides the tools needed to
uphold our laws and remove dangerous
criminals.
On that note, I was also encouraged
to see a statement of administrative
support from the Office of Management
and Budget stating that if the legisla-
tion were presented to the President,
his advisers would recommend that he
sign it into law.
b 0950
Finally, I am not an attorney, but I
thank my friend, Congressman KNOTT,

PAGE 7

Madam Speaker, I include in the
RECORD the Statement of Administra-
tion Policy.
STATEMENTOFADMINISTRATIONPOLICY
H.R. 3486—THESTOPILLEGALENTRYACTOF
2025—REP. BICE, R–OK, ANDFIVECOSPONSORS
The Administration strongly supports pas-
sage of H.R. 3486, the Stop Illegal Entry Act
of 2025. The previous administration allowed
an unprecedented invasion of illegal immi-
gration, resulting in the influx of limitless
criminal aliens—including murderers, rap-
ists, child traffickers and smugglers, drug
dealers, and more—entering the United
States and further enriching foreign ter-
rorist cartels. President Trump took imme-
diate action to seal and secure the border.
Now, to ensure long term border security
and deter the most heinous illegal criminal
aliens from attempting to re-enter the
United States, there must be stronger crimi-
nal penalties to prevent illegal re-entry fol-
lowing removal.
H.R. 3486 will help discourage the most
dangerous criminals from trying to enter, or
re-enter, our country by increasing severe
criminal and financial penalties. Specifi-
cally, the bill would raise the maximum pen-
alty from two years to five years of impris-
onment for any illegal alien convicted of re-
entering the United States.
The best deterrent against these violent
criminals attempting re-entry is the possi-
bility of lengthy jail time. Seventy percent
of the aliens charged for illegal reentry in
2023 had criminal records. For example, an
off-duty Customs and Border Patrol officer
was shot in the face in New York City in
July by an illegal alien who was deported
and reentered under the previous administra-
tion. Last December, a Guatemalan illegal
alien, who was previously deported under the
first Trump Administration and later ille-
gally re-entered, was indicted for lighting a
woman on fire and burning her to death on a
New York City subway.
Additionally, H.R. 3486 cracks down on the
smuggling of illicit drugs across the border,
often through cartel organizations, by im-
posing the possibility of up to fifteen years
in prison for illegal aliens convicted of three
or more misdemeanors involving drugs or
harm against others, or for illegal aliens who
attempt to reenter after being removed three
times. An illegal alien who commits a felony
would face the chance of life in prison.
If H.R. 3486 were presented to the President
in its current form, his advisors would rec-
ommend that he sign it into law.
Mrs. BICE. Madam Speaker, I urge
the passage of this important legisla-
tion to hold those accountable that are
here illegally.
Mr. RASKIN. Madam Speaker, I yield
myself such time as I may consume.
I want to underscore something that
the gentleman from California said.
The whole weight of this bill is on peo-
ple who are not the hardened crimi-
nals. Obviously, we are going to be
prosecuting rapists for rape and mur-
derers for murder and so on. He talked
about people who are hardworking im-
migrants, the kind even President
Trump described when for a moment he
said there wouldn’t be immigration
raids on farms because the agricultural

trict represented by Ms. STEFANIK. I
met a bunch of dairy farmers there,
who told me it was impossible for them
to find workers to work the farms.
With the additional crackdown on mi-
grant labor, it is pretty much impos-
sible for them to get the workers they
need.
What is the economic result of that?
Well, they take the citizen laborers
they have got, and they do mandatory
overtime, so they are working an addi-
tional 15, 20, 30 hours per week, then
they have got to pay them time-and-a-
half under the Fair Labor Standards
Act.
Therefore, the prices go up now be-
cause they are not able to find enough
workers to satisfy the demand. Their
choice at that point is to either pay
the farmers less money, which they
can’t do because the farmers are al-
ready at the breaking point, or they
have got to increase prices, and that is
what they end up doing.
They have said to the grocers, this is
because Congress refuses to work on bi-
partisan immigration reform. That is
why we are seeing inflation in dairy,
produce, and across the agricultural
sector.
The gentleman is telling us if we are
serious about dealing with this, we
need to do what we started to do at the
end of 2024. We need to have bipartisan
commitment to immigration reform,
and we need to sit down and work this
out the way that prior generations of
Americans have done. This is a country
that has been built on immigration.
I am afraid that the gentleman’s leg-
islation here, which is basically just
jacking up a whole series of criminal
penalties, doesn’t get us out of the eco-
nomic problems and the immigration
policy problems that we are in. It is a
distraction. It will be ineffectual, and
so it is not going to work to deal with
the real crises that we are facing.
Madam Chair, I reserve the balance
of my time.
Mr. KNOTT. Madam Speaker, I yield
myself such time as I may consume.
I will say that my friend from Mary-
land mentioned robbery, rape, and
murder. This bill’s goal is to apprehend
dangerous criminals before they rob,
rape, or murder Americans.
Secondly, and most importantly, ref-
erencing a farmworker, if they are here
illegally and they do not commit a fel-
ony, this bill does not touch them. The
only standard that this bill has: Do not
come back into the country a second
time illegally, and do not get convicted
of a felony. How low do you think of
the farmworkers that they cannot
meet that standard?
Madam Speaker, I yield 2 minutes to
the gentleman from Utah (Mr. KEN-
NEDY).
Mr. KENNEDY of Utah. Madam

Under the Biden administration, the
vast majority of those charged with il-
legal reentry already had criminal
records. In Utah, we have seen the con-
sequences firsthand.
This July in Salt Lake County, a 43-
year-old Mexican national was sen-
tenced for drug trafficking and illegal
reentry. He had been deported three
times before. When he was arrested, he
carried an illegal firearm and more
than 9,000 fentanyl pills.
In May, ICE officers in Utah appre-
hended and removed an illegal immi-
grant from Guatemala who was facing
charges of aggravated sexual assault of
a child under the age of 14, after pre-
viously being caught and removed
twice before.
In January, a 24-year-old Mexican na-
tional was charged with the murder of
his girlfriend in Utah just one week
after being deported for the second
time.
These are not isolated cases. They
are just a few recent examples from my
home State, and there are countless
more heartbreaking stories from across
the country.
It is clear that the current penalties
are not enough to deter this dangerous
cycle of illegal reentry. The safety and
security of our citizens must never be
compromised by those who abuse our
system and exploit our borders.
H.R. 3486 protects American families,
upholds the rule of law, and keeps our
Nation secure by setting real penalties
for those who seek to enter our great
Nation illegally to commit crimes. I
urge my colleagues to support this
commonsense legislation.
Mr. RASKIN. Madam Speaker, I yield
2 minutes to the gentlewoman from
California (Ms. KAMLAGER-DOVE), a
very distinguished member of the Judi-
ciary Committee.
Ms. KAMLAGER-DOVE. Madam
Speaker, I rise in strong opposition to
H.R. 3486. Let’s be clear. This bill is not
about border security. It is about pour-
ing gasoline on a prison system that is
already bloated, broken, and unjust.
While American families are begging
us to release the Epstein files, to lower
grocery prices, to keep doctors’ offices
open, to confront mass shootings, Re-
publicans have chosen to waste our
time and taxpayer dollars on a bill that
criminalizes what is already a crime
under Federal law.
This legislation would impose draco-
nian mandatory minimums, even life
sentences, for nonviolent acts like re-
turning to reunite with loved ones.
That is not justice. That is cruelty. We
should be investing in humane immi-
gration policies, not building more
cages. Expanding prisons has never
made us safer. It rips families apart,
disproportionately targeting Black and

PAGE 8

harsher prison sentences. We need
pathways and solutions that actually
work.
H.R. 3486 is punitive, expensive, and
unnecessary. It is waste. It is fraud. It
is abuse. I urge my colleagues to stop
scapegoating immigrants, stop playing
politics with people’s lives, and vote
‘‘no’’ on this cruel and cynical bill.
Mr. KNOTT. Madam Speaker, I yield
2 minutes to the gentleman from North
Carolina (Mr. MOORE).
Mr. MOORE of North Carolina.
Madam Speaker, I had some prepared
remarks, but as I have talked about
this and looked at it even more, this is
probably one of the most commonsense
bills that will come before this Con-
gress.
This bill simply says if someone reen-
ters or if someone commits a felony,
that this law applies. These comments
from the other side to try to confuse
this issue, to misrepresent the issue,
make no sense.
Surely, of all of the things in the
world that we can disagree on, perhaps
we can at least agree that we should
not be allowing felons in this country,
and that when someone is here ille-
gally and commits a felony that this
law ought to apply.
Have not the events of the last recent
days shown that we have enough prob-
lems already? Why would we want to
have felons from outside this country
to come in?
I think about what we were talking
about a few days ago back in North
Carolina—my colleagues Mr. KNOTT
and Mr. HARRIS are here—with the
senseless murder of the young Ukrain-
ian lady on the light-rail line. It turns
out, by the way, that she and her fam-
ily lived in my district. Then, of
course, there is also the senseless mur-
der yesterday, the assassination of
Charlie Kirk, and the violence and evil
that is all around us. This is one step
to try to prevent and stem even more
of that possibly happening. It is by
dealing with dangerous folks, not just
folks who come across the border for
the first time and are dealt with in the
normal way, but dealing with folks
who are committing serious felonies.
This should be common sense. This is
the kind of bill that should get 435
votes on the floor of this House. I hope
my colleagues on the other side will re-
flect on this, will reconsider, and will
do the right thing and vote for this
bill.
b 1000
Mr. RASKIN. Madam Speaker, I have
no more speakers, and I reserve the
balance of my time.
Mr. KNOTT. Madam Speaker, I am
prepared to close, and I reserve the bal-
ance of my time.

have to do is not commit another fel-
ony or commit a felony. As I under-
stand the gentleman’s legislation—and
please correct me if I am wrong, be-
cause he certainly knows it better than
I do—it is a felony to come back to the
country again without having com-
mitted any violent crime or any other
offense. It becomes a felony under the
legislation. Now you have a felony be-
cause you have reentered, and at that
point you are eligible for up to 20 years
or even a life sentence.
Am I understanding that correctly?
There are people whose only offense
could be reentering without anything
else who would be subject to the most
serious punishment.
Madam Speaker, I am happy to yield
if he can just clarify that.
Mr. KNOTT. Will the gentleman
yield?
Mr. RASKIN. I yield to the gen-
tleman from North Carolina.
Mr. KNOTT. The issue with your
characterization, sir, is number one,
someone who enters illegally must be
convicted of illegally entering the
country. Then they must be convicted
of illegally reentering the country to
get a felony conviction. There is no
compulsion to charge the most serious
layers of this offense. There is prosecu-
torial discretion.
Under this law, if someone is appre-
hended, they can be deported without
any charging, and that is where the
misconception and the
mischaracterization is.
If someone is convicted of illegal re-
entry and deported and they come
back, a prosecutor would have the dis-
cretion to charge the 10-year min-
imum. It is not compulsory. It is with-
in the discretion but, yes, he would
meet the element.
Mr. RASKIN. Madam Speaker, re-
claiming my time. I thank my col-
league for that clarification.
Madam Speaker, I am satisfied to be-
lieve, again, that there are people who
could end up with the most severe pen-
alties under the legislation who have
done nothing other than reenter the
country, which is something we don’t
want them to do, which is why we want
a bipartisan immigration bill to actu-
ally fasten down the border and move
forward on this so we are not con-
stantly dealing with this.
The bottom-line problem with my
friend’s legislation, which is offered in
all good faith, is that it is just con-
tinuing to pile criminal penalties on
people reentering the country without
changing any of the incentives or in-
ducements. It doesn’t deal with any of
the things pushing them out of coun-
tries that are marked by violence, gang
violence, authoritarianism, and so on,
nor is it dealing, as Mr. CORREA points

the American taxpayers hundreds of
millions or billions of dollars in hold-
ing people in our prisons for offenses
that currently they are being held for 6
months or for up to 2 years.
Madam Speaker, I urge my col-
leagues to vote ‘‘no’’ on the gentle-
man’s legislation.
Madam Speaker, I yield back the bal-
ance of my time.
Mr. KNOTT. Madam Speaker, I yield
myself the balance of my time.
Madam Speaker, I have heard a lot
from the other side about costs, wheth-
er it be costs to law enforcement, costs
to imprison, costs to society. I want to
talk about the costs of open-border
policies that is felt in this country.
In the year 1990, roughly 5,000 Ameri-
cans died because of illegal drug use.
Since the year 2000, almost 1.5 million
Americans have lost their life because
of using illegal drugs. Of course, there
is involvement locally and domesti-
cally in the drug trade, but just about
all drugs—statistically, all illegal
drugs—come into the country illegally.
That is just one category dealing with
the cost of illegal immigration.
Any criminal code should have three
objectives:
First, it should protect Americans. It
should protect American children. It
should protect American families,
neighborhoods, and businesses from the
ill effects of crime.
Second, it should punish illegal ac-
tivity. When someone harms another
American, there should be adequate
and reciprocal punishment. It should
be efficient, and it should work, again,
to protect Americans.
Thirdly, it should deter ongoing
criminal conduct in that same vein, re-
peat criminal offenses, or anyone who
would want to copy criminal conduct
to enrich themselves.
When you look at the scale of illegal
immigration, when you look at the
problems that are being inflicted upon
this country across every metric, the
criminal law is failing to protect
Americans.
This bill, again, aims to target the
committed criminals who are here ille-
gally. There is no distinction under the
current law for people who commit
crimes when they are here illegally
versus those who commit crimes who
are citizens. That discrepancy enables
hordes of illegal immigrants to come
from around the world to harm Ameri-
cans.
Again, I repeat, Mr. RASKIN, in good
faith and with sound logic, talked
about robbery. He talked about prop-
erty crimes. He talked about rape and
murder. Some of these people have
been convicted of rape, murder, prop-
erty crimes after they have been de-
ported. They return illegally and harm

PAGE 9

from Mexico had illegally entered the
country 26 times. He has received con-
victions for burglary, tampering with
government records, government wit-
nesses, criminal enterprises, illegal re-
entry multiple times. When you look
at cases like this that are so volumi-
nous, it is hard to summarize. Again,
the only conclusion—the only conclu-
sion is the law is insufficient as it is
currently drafted.
We are in Congress to make laws to
protect Americans. When we have such
gaping holes in our criminal justice
law as it relates to illegal immigrant
criminals, not dairy workers, not those
who are not committing crimes, the
conclusion is straightforward. We need
to change the law.
My colleagues on the other side of
the aisle candidly are twisting them-
selves into circles to defend the poli-
cies of the status quo. They want more
illegal immigrants. They do not want
stricter enforcement. They are turning
every opportunity to resist the changes
that Republicans and this President
are trying to implement.
Again, as a Federal prosecutor in my
previous career, I saw how illegal, un-
checked immigration harmed every
corner of my State and the country.
When you have an open flow of illegal
immigration, crime flourishes. It is
hard to quantify the cost.
Again, with this bill, for any illegal
immigrant to be under its effect, they
must commit a felony and get con-
victed or they must illegally reenter—
not enter—reenter after deportation.
That is not a standard too high. That is
not detached from logic.
Again, when you look at the goals of
what all criminal laws should achieve,
protecting Americans, punishing ille-
gal activity, and to deter repeat of-
fenses, this is a needed step to accom-
pany the legitimate approach that the
President has been implementing over
the past few years.
Madam Speaker, I urge my col-
leagues to vote in favor of this legisla-
tion.
Madam Speaker, I yield back the bal-
ance of my time.
b 1010
The SPEAKER pro tempore. All time
for debate has expired.
Pursuant to House Resolution 682,
the previous question is ordered on the
bill, as amended.
The question is on the engrossment
and third reading of the bill.
The bill was ordered to be engrossed
and read a third time, and was read the
third time.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
question is on passage of the bill.
The question was taken; and the
Speaker pro tempore announced that
the ayes appeared to have it.

ANNOUNCEMENT BY THE SPEAKER
PRO TEMPORE
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pro-
ceedings will resume on questions pre-
viously postponed.
Votes will be taken in the following
order:
Motion to instruct conferees on H.R.
3944; and
Passage of H.R. 3486.
The first electronic vote will be con-
ducted as a 15-minute vote. Pursuant
to clause 9 of rule XX, the remaining
electronic vote will be conducted as a
5-minute vote.
f
MOTION TO INSTRUCT CONFEREES
ON H.R. 3944, MILITARY CON-
STRUCTION, VETERANS AF-
FAIRS, AND RELATED AGENCIES
APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2026
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The un-
finished business is the vote on the mo-
tion to instruct on the bill (H.R. 3944)
making appropriations for military
construction, the Department of Vet-
erans Affairs, and related agencies for
the fiscal year ending September 30,
2026, and for other purposes, offered by
the gentlewoman from Connecticut
(Ms. DELAURO) on which the yeas and
nays were ordered.
The Clerk will redesignate the mo-
tion.
The Clerk redesignated the motion.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
question is on the motion to instruct.
The vote was taken by electronic de-
vice, and there were—yeas 211, nays
213, not voting 8, as follows:
[Roll No. 263]
YEAS—211
Adams Davids (KS) Huffman
Aguilar Davis (IL) Ivey
Amo Davis (NC) Jackson (IL)
Ansari Dean (PA) Jacobs
Auchincloss DeGette Jayapal
Balint DeLauro Jeffries
Barraga´n DelBene Johnson (GA)
Beatty Deluzio Johnson (TX)
Bell DeSaulnier Kamlager-Dove
Bera Dexter Kaptur
Beyer Dingell Keating
Bishop Doggett Kelly (IL)
Bonamici Elfreth Kennedy (NY)
Boyle (PA) Escobar Khanna
Bresnahan Espaillat Krishnamoorthi
Brown Fields Landsman
Brownley Figures Larsen (WA)
Budzinski Fletcher Larson (CT)
Bynum Foster Latimer
Carbajal Foushee Lee (NV)
Carson Frankel, Lois Lee (PA)
Carter (LA) Friedman Leger Fernandez
Casar Frost Levin
Case Garamendi Liccardo
Casten Garcia (CA) Lieu
Castor (FL) Garcı´a (IL) Lofgren
Castro (TX) Garcia (TX) Lynch
Cherfilus- Gillen Magaziner
McCormick Golden (ME) Mannion
Chu Goldman (NY) Matsui
Cisneros Gomez McBath
Clark (MA) Gonzalez, V. McBride
Clarke (NY) Goodlander McClain Delaney
Clyburn Gottheimer McClellan
Cohen Gray McCollum

Min Ramirez Suozzi
Moore (WI) Randall Swalwell
Morelle Raskin Sykes
Morrison Riley (NY) Takano
Moskowitz Rivas Thanedar
Moulton Ross Thompson (CA)
Mrvan Ruiz Thompson (MS)
Mullin Ryan Tlaib
Nadler Salinas Tokuda
Neal Sa´nchez Tonko
Neguse Scanlon Torres (CA)
Norcross Schakowsky Torres (NY)
Nunn (IA) Schneider Trahan
Ocasio-Cortez Scholten Tran
Olszewski Schrier Underwood
Omar Scott (VA) Vargas
Pallone Scott, David Vasquez
Panetta Sewell Veasey
Pappas Sherman Vela´zquez
Pelosi Simon Vindman
Perez Smith (WA) Walkinshaw
Peters Sorensen Wasserman
Pettersen Soto Schultz
Pingree Stansbury Waters
Pocan Stanton Watson Coleman
Pou Stevens Whitesides
Pressley Strickland Williams (GA)
Quigley Subramanyam Wilson (FL)
NAYS—213
Aderholt Fulcher McDowell
Alford Garbarino McGuire
Allen Gill (TX) Meuser
Amodei (NV) Gimenez Miller (IL)
Arrington Goldman (TX) Miller (OH)
Babin Gonzales, Tony Miller (WV)
Bacon Gooden Miller-Meeks
Baird Gosar Mills
Balderson Graves Moolenaar
Barr Greene (GA) Moore (AL)
Barrett Griffith Moore (NC)
Baumgartner Grothman Moore (UT)
Bean (FL) Guest Moore (WV)
Begich Guthrie Moran
Bentz Hageman Murphy
Bergman Hamadeh (AZ) Nehls
Bice Haridopolos Norman
Biggs (AZ) Harrigan Obernolte
Biggs (SC) Harris (MD) Ogles
Bilirakis Harris (NC) Onder
Boebert Harshbarger Owens
Bost Hern (OK) Palmer
Brecheen Higgins (LA) Patronis
Buchanan Hill (AR) Perry
Burchett Hinson Pfluger
Burlison Hudson Reschenthaler
Calvert Huizenga Rogers (AL)
Cammack Hunt Rogers (KY)
Carey Hurd (CO) Rose
Carter (GA) Issa Rouzer
Carter (TX) Jack Roy
Ciscomani Jackson (TX) Rulli
Cline James Rutherford
Cloud Johnson (LA) Salazar
Clyde Johnson (SD) Scalise
Cole Jordan Schmidt
Collins Joyce (OH) Schweikert
Comer Joyce (PA) Scott, Austin
Crane Kean Self
Crank Kelly (MS) Sessions
Crawford Kelly (PA) Shreve
Crenshaw Kennedy (UT) Simpson
Davidson Kiggans (VA) Smith (MO)
De La Cruz Kiley (CA) Smith (NE)
DesJarlais Kim Smith (NJ)
Diaz-Balart Knott Smucker
Donalds Kustoff Spartz
Downing LaHood Stauber
Dunn (FL) LaLota Stefanik
Edwards LaMalfa Steil
Ellzey Langworthy Steube
Emmer Latta Strong
Estes Lee (FL) Stutzman
Evans (CO) Letlow Taylor
Ezell Loudermilk Tenney
Fallon Lucas Thompson (PA)
Fedorchak Luna Tiffany
Feenstra Luttrell Timmons
Fine Mace Turner (OH)
Finstad Mackenzie Valadao
Fischbach Malliotakis Van Drew

PAGE 10

Williams (TX) Wittman Yakym
Wilson (SC) Womack Zinke
NOT VOTING—8
Cleaver Lawler Sherrill
Evans (PA) Messmer Titus
Houchin Newhouse
b 1039
Messrs. DIAZ-BALART and BACON
changed their vote from ‘‘yea’’ to
‘‘nay.’’
Messrs. NEAL, STANTON, Ms.
CLARKE of New York, and Mr. HIMES
changed their vote from ‘‘nay’’ to
‘‘yea.’’
So the motion to instruct conferees
on H.R. 3944 was rejected.
The result of the vote was announced
as above recorded.
A motion to reconsider was laid on
the table.
f
STOP ILLEGAL ENTRY ACT OF 2025
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to clause 8 of rule XX, the unfin-
ished business is the vote on passage of
the bill (H.R. 3486) to amend the Immi-
gration and Nationality Act to in-
crease penalties for individuals who il-
legally enter and reenter the United
States after being removed, and for
other purposes, on which the yeas and
nays were ordered.
The Clerk read the title of the bill.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
question is on the passage of the bill.
This is a 5-minute vote.
The vote was taken by electronic de-
vice, and there were—yeas 226, nays
197, not voting 9, as follows:
[Roll No. 264]
YEAS—226
Aderholt Davidson Guest
Alford Davis (NC) Guthrie
Allen De La Cruz Hageman
Amodei (NV) DesJarlais Hamadeh (AZ)
Arrington Diaz-Balart Haridopolos
Babin Donalds Harrigan
Bacon Downing Harris (MD)
Baird Dunn (FL) Harris (NC)
Balderson Edwards Harshbarger
Barr Ellzey Hern (OK)
Barrett Emmer Higgins (LA)
Baumgartner Estes Hill (AR)
Bean (FL) Evans (CO) Hinson
Begich Ezell Hudson
Bentz Fallon Huizenga
Bergman Fedorchak Hunt
Bice Feenstra Hurd (CO)
Biggs (AZ) Fine Issa
Biggs (SC) Finstad Jack
Bilirakis Fischbach Jackson (TX)
Boebert Fitzgerald James
Bost Fitzpatrick Johnson (LA)
Brecheen Fleischmann Johnson (SD)
Bresnahan Flood Jordan
Buchanan Fong Joyce (OH)
Burchett Foxx Joyce (PA)
Burlison Franklin, Scott Kean
Calvert Fry Kelly (MS)
Cammack Fulcher Kelly (PA)
Carey Garbarino Kennedy (UT)
Carter (GA) Gill (TX) Kiggans (VA)
Carter (TX) Gillen Kiley (CA)
Ciscomani Gimenez Kim
Cline Golden (ME) Knott
Cloud Goldman (TX) Kustoff
Clyde Gonzales, Tony LaHood

Luna Nunn (IA) Stauber
Luttrell Obernolte Stefanik
Mace Ogles Steil
Mackenzie Onder Steube
Malliotakis Owens Strong
Maloy Palmer Stutzman
Mann Patronis Suozzi
Massie Perez Taylor
Mast Perry Tenney
McCaul Pfluger
McClain Reschenthaler
Thompson (PA)
McClintock Rogers (AL)
Tiffany
McCormick Rogers (KY) Timmons
McDonald Rivet Rose Turner (OH)
McDowell Rouzer Valadao
McGuire Roy Van Drew
Meuser Rulli Van Duyne
Miller (IL) Rutherford Van Orden
Miller (OH) Salazar Vasquez
Miller (WV) Scalise Wagner
Miller-Meeks Schmidt Walberg
Mills Schweikert Weber (TX)
Moolenaar Scott, Austin Webster (FL)
Moore (AL) Self Westerman
Moore (NC) Sessions Wied
Moore (UT) Shreve Williams (TX)
Moore (WV) Simpson Wilson (SC)
Moran Smith (MO) Wittman
Mrvan Smith (NE)
Murphy Smith (NJ)
Womack
Yakym
Nehls Smucker
Norman Spartz Zinke
NAYS—197
Adams Garcı´a (IL) Neguse
Aguilar Garcia (TX) Norcross
Amo Goldman (NY) Ocasio-Cortez
Ansari Gomez Olszewski
Auchincloss Goodlander Omar
Balint Gottheimer Pallone
Barraga´n Green, Al (TX) Panetta
Beatty Harder (CA) Pappas
Bell Hayes Pelosi
Bera Himes Peters
Beyer Horsford Pettersen
Bishop Houlahan Pingree
Bonamici Hoyer Pocan
Boyle (PA) Hoyle (OR) Pou
Brown Huffman Pressley
Brownley Ivey Quigley
Budzinski Jackson (IL) Ramirez
Bynum Jacobs Randall
Carbajal Jayapal Raskin
Carson Jeffries Riley (NY)
Carter (LA) Johnson (GA) Rivas
Casar Johnson (TX) Ross
Case Kamlager-Dove
Ruiz
Casten Kaptur
Ryan
Castor (FL) Keating
Salinas
Castro (TX) Kelly (IL) Sa´nchez
Cherfilus- Kennedy (NY)
Scanlon
McCormick Khanna
Schakowsky
Chu Krishnamoorthi
Schneider
Cisneros Landsman
Scholten
Clark (MA) Larsen (WA)
Schrier
Clarke (NY) Larson (CT)
Scott (VA)
Clyburn Latimer
Cohen Lee (NV) Scott, David
Conaway Lee (PA) Sewell
Correa Leger Fernandez Sherman
Costa Levin Simon
Courtney Liccardo Smith (WA)
Craig Lieu Sorensen
Crockett Lofgren Soto
Crow Lynch Stansbury
Davids (KS) Magaziner Stanton
Davis (IL) Mannion Stevens
Dean (PA) Matsui Strickland
DeGette McBath Subramanyam
DeLauro McBride Swalwell
DelBene McClain Delaney Sykes
Deluzio McClellan Takano
DeSaulnier McCollum Thanedar
Dexter McGarvey Thompson (CA)
Dingell McGovern Thompson (MS)
Doggett McIver Tlaib
Elfreth Meeks Tokuda
Escobar Menendez Tonko
Espaillat Meng Torres (CA)
Fields Mfume Torres (NY)
Figures Min Tran

Waters Whitesides Wilson (FL)
Watson Coleman Williams (GA)
NOT VOTING—9
Cleaver Lawler Sherrill
Evans (PA) Messmer Titus
Houchin Newhouse Trahan
b 1047
Mrs. FLETCHER changed her vote
from ‘‘yea’’ to ‘‘nay.’’
Mr. MRVAN changed his vote from
‘‘nay’’ to ‘‘yea.’’
So the bill was passed.
The result of the vote was announced
as above recorded.
A motion to reconsider was laid on
the table.
PERSONALEXPLANATION
Ms. TITUS. Madam Speaker, I was absent
from the floor and the missed Roll Call votes
numbered 263 and 264. Had I been present,
I would have voted: YEA on Roll Call No. 263
on the Motion to Instruct Conferees on HR
3944, and NAY on Roll Call No. 264 on Final
Passage HR 3486.
PERSONALEXPLANATION
Mr. NEWHOUSE. Mr. Speaker, due to a
previously scheduled medical procedure, I was
unable to vote today. Had I been present, I
would have voted NAY on Roll Call No. 263
and YEA on Roll Call No. 264.
f
b 1050
REMOVAL OF NAME OF MEMBER
AS COSPONSOR OF H.R. 4312
Mr. MOSKOWITZ. Mr. Speaker, I
hereby remove my name as cosponsor
of H.R. 4312.
The SPEAKER pro tempore (Mr.
JACK). The gentleman’s request is
granted.
f
ADJOURNMENT FROM THURSDAY,
SEPTEMBER 11, 2025, TO MONDAY,
SEPTEMBER 15, 2025
Mr. WESTERMAN. Mr. Speaker, I
ask unanimous consent that when the
House adjourns today, it adjourn to
meet at noon on Monday next for
morning-hour debate and 2 p.m. for leg-
islative business.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is there
objection to the request of the gen-
tleman from Arkansas?
There was no objection.
f
REMEMBERING ANNIVERSARY OF
SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACKS
(Mr. THOMPSON of Pennsylvania
asked and was given permission to ad-
dress the House for 1 minute and to re-
vise and extend his remarks.)
Mr. THOMPSON of Pennsylvania.
Mr. Speaker, I rise today, on the 24th
anniversary of the September 11 ter-
rorist attacks, to remember the inno-
cent lives we lost.
At 8:46 a.m., American Airlines

PAGE 11

In southwest Pennsylvania, the
fourth flight, United 93, was hijacked
and made an abrupt turn toward Wash-
ington, D.C., but because of the brave
passengers and crewmembers, it
crashed into a field in Shanksville,
Pennsylvania.
In the days, weeks, months, and now
more than two decades that followed
September 11, our country joined to-
gether to face the very evil that tried
to take us down. While today’s world
has grown no less dangerous and we
continue to grapple with evil, Ameri-
cans are resilient.
May God continue to watch over our
first responders, our men and women in
uniform, and all those who keep us
safe.
f
COMMENDING EASTERN NORTH
CAROLINA SCHOOL FOR THE DEAF
(Mr. DAVIS of North Carolina asked
and was given permission to address
the House for 1 minute and to revise
and extend his remarks.)
Mr. DAVIS of North Carolina. Mr.
Speaker, as students have returned to
school, I had the honor of visiting the
Eastern North Carolina School for the
Deaf in Wilson, North Carolina.
There, I was welcomed by cheerful
students, incredible teachers, and dedi-
cated administrators and staff. I
stopped by classrooms and the cafe-
teria to see students in action and even
helped teach a math class.
The Hornets remind us that edu-
cation is ensuring that every child has
a chance to live the American Dream.
It involves creating the best learning
environments possible that meet stu-
dents where they are. We must keep
working to build a brighter future for
every child in every classroom across
the Nation.
I love you. Go Hornets.
f
NDAA RESTORES PEACE THROUGH
STRENGTH
(Mr. GUTHRIE asked and was given
permission to address the House for 1
minute and to revise and extend his re-
marks.)
Mr. GUTHRIE. Mr. Speaker, I am
proud to have supported the 2026 Na-
tional Defense Authorization Act. This
bill is a generational investment in our
national defense.
House Republicans, alongside Presi-
dent Trump, are investing in our mili-
tary-industrial capabilities, securing
all servicemembers a well-deserved pay
raise, making meaningful strides to se-
cure our southern border, and so much
more.
As a graduate of West Point and the
proud Representative of Fort Knox, I
am excited by the commitment this
bill makes to Army Reserve Aviation

refocuses our military posture, and
puts America first.
Mr. Speaker, I encourage all of my
colleagues to join me in supporting
this historic investment in our na-
tional defense.
f
A BEAR AND A BOOK
(Mr. LATIMER asked and was given
permission to address the House for 1
minute and to revise and extend his re-
marks.)
Mr. LATIMER. Mr. Speaker, today, I
recognize Lauren Cullinan and Peyton
Savarese, 11th graders at The Ursuline
School in New Rochelle, who for 15
years have been friends and collabo-
rated on multiple school projects to-
gether, including A Bear and a Book.
A Bear and a Book was founded in
the fall of 2023 as a way to promote
youth literacy. Like many others,
when Lauren and Peyton were little,
they would line up their teddy bears
and read them a story. If they did not
have someone to read to, they could al-
ways count on reading to their bears.
The Bear and a Book presentation be-
gins with the girls reading an age-ap-
propriate book to children with their
own bear friends, Candy Bear and
Sprinkles. At the end of the story, each
child is given a bear and a book of their
own to read at home.
With this book project, they have
reached 55 classrooms in both New
York and nearby Connecticut, and over
1,500 books and bears have been distrib-
uted.
Mr. Speaker, I applaud Lauren and
Peyton for wanting to help young chil-
dren in our community and for their
entrepreneurial spirit.
f
MESSAGE FROM THE SENATE
A message from the Senate by Mr.
Ferrari, one of its clerks, announced
that the Senate has passed bills of the
following titles in which the concur-
rence of the House is requested:
S. 93. An act to amend the Harmful Algal
Bloom and Hypoxia Research and Control
act of 1998 to address harmful algal blooms,
and for other purposes.
S. 306. An act to establish and maintain a
coordinated program within the National
Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration
that improves wildfire, fire weather, fire
risk, and wildfire smoke related forecasting,
detection, modeling, observations, and serv-
ice delivery, and for other purposes.
S. 725. An act to direct the Federal Com-
munications Commission to issue reports
after activation of the Disaster Information
Reporting System and to make improve-
ments to network outage reporting, to cat-
egorize public safety telecommunicators as a
protective service occupation under the
Standard Occupational Classification Sys-
tem, and for other purposes.
S. 759. An act to provide for the standard-

the Ranking Member of the Committee
on Armed Services, appoints the fol-
lowing Senator to the Board of Visitors
of the U.S. Naval Academy:
The Senator from Maryland (Ms.
ALSOBROOKS).
f
REMEMBERING CHARLIE KIRK
(Mrs. MILLER of Illinois asked and
was given permission to address the
House for 1 minute and to revise and
extend her remarks.)
Mrs. MILLER of Illinois. Mr. Speak-
er, I rise today truly heartbroken over
the tragic loss of my friend and fellow
Illinois native, Charlie Kirk.
Charlie was a devoted husband and
father, a bold Christian who never
backed down from speaking truth
peacefully. Charlie inspired millions
with his courage and convictions. Be-
cause of Charlie, countless young peo-
ple love America, boldly stand for their
faith, and proudly defend our freedoms
on college campuses and beyond.
His death was not an isolated trag-
edy. It is part of a disturbing trend in
political violence in our country, en-
couraged by the radical left and ampli-
fied by a corrupt media that has gone
from being fake to totally evil.
As we grieve, let us honor Charlie’s
legacy by continuing the work he so
faithfully championed, and let us lift
up his wife and children in our prayers.
f
CONGRATULATING SUMMERLIN
SOUTH LITTLE LEAGUE TEAM
(Ms. LEE of Nevada asked and was
given permission to address the House
for 1 minute.)
Ms. LEE of Nevada. Mr. Speaker, I
rise today to congratulate the 2025 U.S.
Little League champions: the
Summerlin South Little League.
After undefeated runs at the District
Four, Nevada, and Mountain West
tournaments, Summerlin South
punched their ticket to the Little
League World Series, making them the
third consecutive Nevada team to qual-
ify.
In Williamsport, they went on an in-
credible 5–2 run against the best teams
from across the country and around
the world, including a win over Fair-
field to claim the U.S. Championship.
Led by their coaches, a trio of volun-
teer dads, Tony D’Ambrosio, TJ
Fechser, and Americo Miranda, this
team showed the world how Nevada
plays ball.
I was so proud to join the community
in downtown Summerlin to give these
all-stars the homecoming they deserve.
Mr. Speaker, Summerlin South made
Nevada proud on the world stage, and I
can’t wait to see what is next for these
incredible athletes.
f
b 1100

PAGE 12

Mrs. MILLER of West Virginia. Mr.
Speaker, I rise today to recognize West
Virginia Supreme Court Justice Tim
Armstead.
Tim was born to James and Myrtle
Armstead on February 26, 1965, and
passed away on Tuesday, August 26 of
this year.
His life was one of dedicated service
to our State of West Virginia. Begin-
ning as an intern in the Governor’s of-
fice after graduating from West Vir-
ginia College of Law, he rose to work
as an executive assistant to the Gov-
ernor’s chief of staff and served on the
Governor’s Cabinet for Children and
Families.
Tim’s passion for public service led
him to be elected to the West Virginia
House of Delegates in 1998, later serve
as the minority leader, and rise to be-
come speaker of the house of delegates
in 2015.
He was appointed and later elected to
the Supreme Court of Appeals of West
Virginia in 2018 and would retain his
position until his passing.
Tim’s life was guided by his Christian
faith and dedicated to our State and its
people, especially children suffering
from neglect and abuse. He worked
tirelessly to defend those children on
the court of appeals and worked to re-
tain and recruit attorneys to provide
services for these children’s cases.
West Virginia is a better place
thanks to the life of Tim Armstead,
and the lives that he touched will miss
his positive influence. I was proud to
call him a dear friend and cherish the
special time we spent together.
I send my sincerest condolences and
love to Anna, Katie, Aaron, Benedum,
and Ann.
f
HONORING 9/11 CIVILIANS AND
FIRST RESPONDERS
(Mr. VINDMAN asked and was given
permission to address the House for 1
minute and to revise and extend his re-
marks.)
Mr. VINDMAN. Mr. Speaker, today I
rise in honor of the brave civilians and
first responders who answered the call
24 years ago on September 11 and the
servicemembers who died in the ensu-
ing wars that followed.
On that morning, ordinary individ-
uals displayed extraordinary courage,
not only through their service but also
through their sacrifice.
Mr. Speaker, 24 years ago, I watched
in horror as the events of September 11
unfolded. 9/11 changed my life and the
entire country. Less than 30 days later,
I was activated as a reserve soldier,
training soldiers to deploy to Afghani-
stan to defend our Nation abroad.
I went on to continue my service in
Active Duty, forever changed by 9/11.

slain in that devastating attack on our
Nation.
September 11 changed the course of
history, but in our sorrow we found
unity. In crisis, we found resilience. We
will never forget that terrible day 24
years ago.
f
REMEMBERING AND HONORING 9/11
HEROES
(Mr. KEAN of New Jersey asked and
was given permission to address the
House for 1 minute and to revise and
extend his remarks.)
Mr. KEAN of New Jersey. Mr. Speak-
er, on September 11, 2001, our Nation
endured an unspeakable tragedy, and
New Jersey carried a deep share of that
loss. Thousands of our neighbors left
home for work that morning and never
returned.
Today, 24 years later, we honor those
we lost, the first responders, the every-
day citizens who became heroes, and
the families who continue to carry this
grief.
We also recognize the tens of thou-
sands who still suffer from cancer and
other illnesses caused by that day’s at-
tacks and its aftermath. Their sacrifice
and their strength remind us of the
very best of America—our resilience,
our compassion, and our unity.
We remember each and every one of
them, and each generation will ensure
that they are never forgotten. May God
bless their memory, their families, and
may God bless the United States of
America.
f
CELEBRATING AMERICA’S DIRECT
SUPPORT PROFESSIONALS
(Mr. AMO asked and was given per-
mission to address the House for 1
minute and to revise and extend his re-
marks.)
Mr. AMO. Mr. Speaker, this week we
are celebrating America’s direct sup-
port professionals, the dedicated work-
ers who support Rhode Islanders with
disabilities, workers like Amy from
Woonsocket, who said: The best part of
being a DSP is that every day is never
the same. I get to celebrate the vic-
tories and milestones of the people
that I support. It is so rewarding to see
how proud they are of themselves.
However, workers like Amy who do
such great work are at risk. Repub-
lican Medicaid costs in Trump’s big,
ugly law pose a threat to direct sup-
port professionals and the Rhode Is-
landers with disabilities they serve.
Medicaid funds 77 percent of the essen-
tial services, including in-home and
community-based supports, group
homes, and intermediate care facilities
that serve the most vulnerable Rhode
Islanders.

To Amy and all those doing this hard
work: Keep it up and know that I have
their back in Congress.
f
NEVER FORGET SEPTEMBER 11
(Mr. MEUSER asked and was given
permission to address the House for 1
minute and to revise and extend his re-
marks.)
Mr. MEUSER. Mr. Speaker, on this
solemn anniversary, we reaffirm our
vow to never forget September 11. That
morning began like any other. I had
just dropped my daughter off at school
on a clear, beautiful day across the
northeast.
Within hours, our lives were forever
changed as we watched in horror as
planes struck the Twin Towers, learned
of the attack on the Pentagon, and wit-
nessed the extraordinary heroism in
Shanksville, where ordinary Americans
made the ultimate sacrifice to prevent
another attack.
In the days that followed, I traveled
to Ground Zero, delivering mobility
equipment requested by the NYPD—
not for the injured, but for those first
responders who had been on their feet
for days.
Yet even in that moment of national
grief, I will always remember the New
York streets lined with Americans
cheering for first responders and stand-
ing together in renewed patriotism.
In President Lincoln’s timeless
words: ‘‘We . . . resolve that these dead
shall not have died in vain—that this
nation, under God, shall have a new
birth of freedom . . .’’
May our Nation always endure, pro-
ducing patriots like the late Charlie
Kirk whose legacy reminds us that
America will thrive and never perish
from the Earth.
f
HONORING JOHN BROMSTEAD
(Mr. CISNEROS asked and was given
permission to address the House for 1
minute and to revise and extend his re-
marks.)
Mr. CISNEROS. Mr. Speaker, I rise
today to celebrate and honor the
achievements of Glendora letter car-
rier John Bromstead.
John recently retired after a 40-year
career in the U.S. Postal Service.
Throughout this time, he drove 1 mil-
lion accident-free miles, delivering let-
ters, packages, and smiles across our
community.
John was honored as a member of the
National Safety Council Million Mile
Club, and he received the Million Mile
Award, a truly remarkable achieve-
ment.
Too often the stellar work of letter
carriers like John goes unnoticed, but
they play an essential role in ensuring
our society, commerce, and community

PAGE 13

b 1110
HONORING CHARLIE KIRK AND
CONDEMNING EVIL
(Mr. STUTZMAN asked and was
given permission to address the House
for 1 minute and to revise and extend
his remarks.)
Mr. STUTZMAN. Mr. Speaker, it is
hard to put into words how I am feel-
ing.
On one hand, I feel the heaviness and
sadness that hundreds of thousands of
students like my sons are feeling be-
cause they know that Charlie Kirk, an
inspiring American, was assassinated
for standing for his faith, exercising his
First Amendment rights, and engaging
in open and honest debate.
On the other hand, I feel enraged be-
cause some Americans celebrated at
the news of Charlie’s murder. If that
was you, shame on you.
I am sick and tired of this evil.
Today is 9/11. Instead of remembering
the evil attack on our country that day
24 years ago, we are now talking about
another tragedy fueled by the same
kind of hate. It is the same hate that
assassinated Dr. Martin Luther King,
Jr.
Like Dr. King, Charlie was shot be-
cause he passionately and courageously
spoke truth and invoked generational
change in our Nation. They both
dreamed of a better America for all, no
matter their politics or skin color.
Charlie loved his Savior, Jesus
Christ, loved his family, loved his
country, and loved his fellow Ameri-
cans. He believed that through honest
conversation, the best ideas could win.
Charlie’s vision for America inspired
millions. Evil has killed him as a
human, but watch out. Thousands of
Charlies are already ready to stand for
their faith, raise their families, and
face down evil that has raised its head
again in our country.
Mr. Speaker, may our Lord comfort
the Kirk family and use Charlie’s leg-
acy to heal our land.
f
VENEZUELA, FTOS, AND WAR
POWERS
(Ms. OMAR asked and was given per-
mission to address the House for 1
minute and to revise and extend her re-
marks.)
Ms. OMAR. Mr. Speaker, I rise today
to denounce the Trump administra-
tion’s reckless and illegal escalation in
the Caribbean.
More than a week after the attack,
we have not gotten any clarity whatso-
ever on the legal authority they relied
on to conduct the strike.
Let me be clear: There is no conceiv-
able legal justification. It was not self-
defense, and it was not authorized by

Mr. Speaker, I urge all of my col-
leagues, regardless of their party or
ideology, to join me in this effort. All
of us should agree that the separation
of powers is crucial to our democracy
and that Congress has to fight for its
own power.
f
RECOGNIZING PLEASANT GROVE,
UTAH
(Mr. KENNEDY of Utah asked and
was given permission to address the
House for 1 minute and to revise and
extend his remarks.)
Mr. KENNEDY of Utah. Mr. Speaker,
today, I rise to celebrate 175 years
since the establishment of Pleasant
Grove, Utah.
Established on September 13, 1850, by
pioneers, Pleasant Grove is located in
an idyllic location, nestled at the base
of the majestic snowcapped mountains
of the Wasatch Front.
Its rich history is highlighted by the
iconic Strawberry Days celebration,
which began in 1921 and remains the
longest-running city celebration in
Utah. Each year, families gather to cel-
ebrate the city’s agricultural heritage
with strawberries and cream, parades,
concerts, and rodeos.
Pleasant Grove also offers out-
standing recreation and cultural treas-
ures, from the scenic trails of Battle
Creek Falls and the wooden castles at
Discovery Park, to the family tradi-
tions of Hee Haw Farms and the
Christa McAuliffe Space Center.
Though the city has grown, it con-
tinues to be a family-oriented town
where residents can learn, explore, and
thrive together.
At the heart of Pleasant Grove is its
tight-knit community, people dedi-
cated to service, education, and pre-
serving the city’s rich history.
I want to recognize the service of
Mayor Guy Fugal and the members of
the Pleasant Grove City Council, whose
leadership reflects the values of this
remarkable community.
I am proud to represent Pleasant
Grove in Utah’s Third District and
look forward to celebrating this mo-
mentous achievement with them.
f
MENTAL HEALTH OF FARMERS
(Ms. SALINAS asked and was given
permission to address the House for 1
minute and to revise and extend her re-
marks.)
Ms. SALINAS. Mr. Speaker, Sep-
tember is National Suicide Prevention
Month. That is why I rise today to
highlight the urgent need to support
the mental well-being of our rural com-
munities.
The suicide rates among farmers,
ranchers, and agricultural managers

in our rural communities need. Be-
cause of these cruel cuts, Oregonians
will lose out on lifesaving mental and
behavioral health care, and the mental
health crisis will only get worse.
As a founding member of the Bipar-
tisan Rural Health Caucus, I know that
our rural neighbors often travel long
distances to access care.
I have a bill, the Home-Based Tele-
mental Health Care Act, that would ex-
pand access to remote mental health
and substance use services in rural
America, specifically for individuals
working in the farming, fishing, and
forestry industries.
Mr. Speaker, it is time we come to-
gether to pass legislation that will ad-
dress our Nation’s growing mental
health crisis and provide farmers and
people in rural communities the care
they deserve.
f
REMEMBERING IRYNA ZARUTSKA,
9/11 VICTIMS, AND CHARLIE KIRK
(Mr. LAMALFA asked and was given
permission to address the House for 1
minute and to revise and extend his re-
marks.)
Mr. LAMALFA. Mr. Speaker, this is
the last opportunity to speak on the
floor this week, and today is like a con-
fluence of a lot of really horrific things
in recent or longer history.
We should not forget the very recent
vicious taking of the life of Iryna
Zarutska, a Ukrainian refugee who
made it to this country and was vic-
timized on a train in North Carolina by
a 14-time released criminal. Let’s not
forget her.
Today, we mark the 24th anniversary
of the 9/11 attacks on our country. We
never should forget that, although it
seems our society is doing that with
what we are allowing to happen. Re-
member those 3,000-plus folks who died
on this day.
I can’t let this week go without also
acknowledging Charlie Kirk, a modern-
day civil rights leader, so to speak,
who stood for truth, who stood for the
people. Even though he might have
been arguing with them in a friendly
way at these events, he wanted them to
know the truth. He wanted to lead
them from the darkness, from the de-
ception of this modern-day society of
people who are deceiving people and
their really bad choices. He was doing
it with God’s love, with Christ’s love.
He has been taken.
I hope his image, his memory, is
made even stronger somehow, as some-
times is God’s will, with his loss.
Today, we pray for his beautiful fam-
ily, for the support they are going to
need.
Mr. Speaker, Charlie Kirk was a lead-
er. He was leading people from the
darkness, and may God bless him.

PAGE 14

Ms. GILLEN. Mr. Speaker, I rise
today with a heavy heart on the 24th
anniversary of the 9/11 terrorist at-
tacks, one of the darkest days in our
Nation’s history.
Nearly 3,000 Americans, mothers and
fathers, sons and daughters, husbands
and wives, friends and neighbors, were
taken from us in an act of unspeakable
evil on the morning of September 11.
In the years since, we have lost thou-
sands more to fatal health conditions
caused by the toxic aftermath of that
day, as first responders and survivors
who simply went to work or lived near
the towers were stricken by cancer and
respiratory illnesses that were tied to
Ground Zero.
Many Long Islanders who bravely
rushed to the towers that day are still
paying the price with their health and
with their lives.
It is time for Congress to come to-
gether and pass a permanent funding
fix to the World Trade Center Health
Program that will ensure that it is
fully staffed and able to meet the needs
of our 9/11 community.
We will never forget the horror of
that day, but we can choose to honor it
by how we care for our brave first re-
sponders and survivors.
f
b 1120
DELIVERING FOR HARDWORKING
MICHIGANDERS
(Mr. WALBERG asked and was given
permission to address the House for 1
minute and to revise and extend his re-
marks.)
Mr. WALBERG. Mr. Speaker, last
month I traveled across Michigan’s
Fifth District to visit hardworking
Michiganders who are excited about
the benefits of the bill that will include
working family tax cuts.
I heard from a farmer in Horton who
is relieved that it will be easier to pass
his family farm to the next generation
because this historic legislation dou-
bles the death tax exemption.
I spoke to a small business owner in
Monroe who will now be able to invest
more in his operations and grow his
family business due to the progrowth
policies.
I talked to a waitress in Cassopolis
who called this legislation life-chang-
ing because she will be able to pocket
more of her hard-earned money thanks
to no tax on tips and overtime.
As I travel across my district, it is
clear that we are delivering for hard-
working Michiganders and ushering in
a new era of prosperity, and that is
great.
f
REMEMBER 9/11

cent people whose lives were lost, as
well as the courage of servicemembers
and first responders who responded
that day, many of whom called Vir-
ginia home.
The emotional and physical scars of
those attacks persist today. We have a
duty to care for those who were af-
fected by the devastation. That in-
cludes the servicemembers who re-
turned to work at the Pentagon the
next day and were exposed to asbestos
and other toxins, causing lifelong nega-
tive health effects.
That is why I am introducing the
Susan E. Lukas 9/11 Servicemember
Fairness Act today. This legislation
will close the gap in coverage and en-
sure that these servicemembers receive
the care and benefits they deserve.
This bill is named after retired Air
Force Lieutenant Colonel Susan
Lukas, a constituent from Gainesville,
who returned to work in the Pentagon
the day after 9/11 and still suffers to
this day chronic health issues as a re-
sult.
These brave servicemembers, like
Susan, sacrifice so much to keep our
country safe. They deserve our support.
f
MISSOURIANS’ SERIOUS CONCERNS
(Mr. BELL asked and was given per-
mission to address the House for 1
minute and to revise and extend his re-
marks.)
Mr. BELL. Mr. Speaker, I come from
Missouri, and the people I represent
have serious concerns. They are wor-
ried about paying for healthcare. They
are worried about the cost of food and
affordable housing or raising families
with some measure of security. What
they are not worried about is a mid-
decade power grab in Jefferson City,
but that is exactly what is happening.
This isn’t about fair representation.
It is about politicians trying to lock in
their power by carving up Kansas City
and silencing voices they do not want
to hear. These include voices like Con-
gressman CLEAVER, a man of integrity,
who has served this Chamber, our
State, and our country with dignity
and distinction for decades.
No one asked for this, not the stake-
holders, not the business community,
and, most importantly, not the people
of Missouri.
Let’s not mince words. This is cheat-
ing. It is cowardice. If we allow it, we
are telling Missourians that their
voices don’t matter. Our democracy
doesn’t belong to partisan mapmakers.
It belongs to the people.
f
HONORING MAY CHEN AND MARY
ANN FREEDMAN
(Mrs. SYKES asked and was given

zens Hall of Fame and for being named
Ohio’s 13th Congressional District’s
Champions of the Week.
As a native of Hong Kong, May Chen
developed profound empathy for immi-
grants after witnessing the struggles of
Chinese refugees in her home country.
After emigrating herself to the United
States in 1995, May helped found Asia
Services in Action, also known as ASIA
Inc., an organization dedicated to serv-
ing the needs of immigrant commu-
nities. She turned obstacles into oppor-
tunities.
Today, with about 80 full-time staff-
ers, ASIA, Inc., provides family and
adult health services, legal services,
small business assistance, and so much
more to the over 58,000 people who are
looking to build a life in northeast
Ohio communities.
I am also proud to recognize Mary
Ann Freedman. Mary Ann lives her life
mission based on the Hebrew phrase
‘‘repair of the world’’; ‘‘tikkun olam.’’
She chose to use her life and her tal-
ents to found Adult Guardianship Serv-
ices. She worked to expand and trans-
form this program into Adult Guard-
ianship Services of Summit County.
As executive director, Mary Ann
worked with guardians and caregivers
to ensure the most vulnerable members
of our communities are cared for and
respected and not forgotten as they
age.
Mr. Speaker, both of these women
dedicated their years to serving the
most underserved. Both demonstrate
the incredible power of concerned citi-
zens, serving their communities. I ex-
tend to them my sincere gratitude and
appreciation and recognize that people
of any age can continue to make mean-
ingful contributions to their commu-
nities.
f
RECOGNIZING MILWAUKEE’S
SEVERE FLOODING
(Ms. MOORE of Wisconsin asked and
was given permission to address the
House for 1 minute and to revise and
extend her remarks.)
Ms. MOORE of Wisconsin. Mr. Speak-
er, I rise today in agony about the se-
vere flooding that recently struck
southeastern Wisconsin, hitting my
district and my constituents hard.
On August 9, the so-called 1000-year
flood dumped record rainfall across
Wisconsin, bringing flooding and sew-
age backup that cost millions of dol-
lars in damage, left thousands without
power, and forced many from their
homes.
Recent reports indicate that this
flooding has been responsible for a loss
of life. I have no doubt that many more
lives would have been lost were it not
for the tireless work of our brave first
responders.

PAGE 15

State and county authorities to fully
assess the damage wrought by this
flooding. With that work largely done
now, the Governor has requested a
major disaster declaration that would
unlock Federal assistance for many
households, businesses, and the public.
We are still trying to put this all to-
gether and figure out how to pay for
this. I urge our President to imme-
diately approve Governor Evers’ re-
quest for a Federal disaster declara-
tion, a request supported by the entire
delegation on both sides of the aisle.
Mr. Speaker, this just shows us the
irreplaceable role of the Federal Gov-
ernment in helping to put victims’
lives back together.
f
RECOMMITTING TO CIVILITY AND
UNITY
(Mr. MENENDEZ asked and was
given permission to address the House
for 1 minute and to revise and extend
his remarks.)
Mr. MENENDEZ. Mr. Speaker, 24
years ago today, our Nation was
changed forever. I remember that day
as a high school student. Standing
along the Hudson River, a cloud of
smoke and destruction hung over the
New York skyline. There was palpable
fear and terror in the air. I witnessed a
stream of people covered in ashes, try-
ing to get home. It is impossible to for-
get.
What I remember most is how we
came together as a country after that
fateful day and how we bridged our di-
vide and joined together as one Nation
in grief and mourning but also in re-
solve and patriotism.
Today, 24 years later, we are once
again reminded of how easily those di-
visions can take hold of us and how
they can divide us if we allow them to.
We owe it to ourselves and, even more
so, to the bravest Americans who an-
swered the call that day and laid down
their lives to recommit ourselves to ci-
vility and unity.
We must never forget 9/11. We must
never forget the victims, the survivors,
and their families. I believe with every
fiber of my being that we can heal our
Nation and mend our wounds. We can
truly be the United States of America
and ‘‘out of many, one.’’
Mr. Speaker, that is the best way to
honor their memory today and every
day hereafter.
f
HONORING JOEL KAWAHARA
(Ms. RANDALL asked and was given
permission to address the House for 1
minute and to revise and extend her re-
marks.)
Ms. RANDALL. Mr. Speaker, I rise
today to honor Joel Kawahara, a 70-
year-old commercial fisherman who

Highliner of the Year, known up and
down the West Coast for the excep-
tional quality of his catch.
What truly set Joel apart was his un-
wavering commitment to conservation.
For over 30 years, he served on the
Save Our Wild Salmon coalition. He
would cut his own fishing trips short to
attend policy meetings. The last time I
saw him, while walking through the
boatyard in Port Townsend, he stopped
working on the Karolee to talk to me
about NOAA and how important it was
to protect.
Friends remember his infectious
laugh at beach parties and his generous
spirit. He put his family’s 80-acre prop-
erty in a conservation easement. He
understood that caring for the land
means caring for the fish and caring for
the fish means caring for future gen-
erations of fishermen.
Mr. Speaker, Joel showed us that a
well-lived life is one spent fighting for
what we believe in while lifting up our
community along the way. We honor
Joel’s memory and his legacy of serv-
ice to our waters and our way of life.
f
b 1130
RESTORE LIFESAVING FOOD AID
(Mr. MAGAZINER asked and was
given permission to address the House
for 1 minute and to revise and extend
his remarks.)
Mr. MAGAZINER. Mr. Speaker, I rise
today, for the 39th time, to call on the
Trump administration to restore life-
saving food aid for children around the
world.
We are grieving today. We are griev-
ing the lives lost on September 11, 2001.
We are grieving the lives of Charlie
Kirk and others who have been victims
of political violence and mass shoot-
ings.
We don’t always have the power in
this Chamber to save every life, but we
do have the power to save many lives,
including the lives of children suffering
from starvation, lives that are valuable
and that deserve a chance.
The Trump administration cut off
this program in January, and they
have been promising to restore it,
going so far as to issue RFPs and to
make promises that the program will
be restored, but they have not yet done
it.
All it takes is for them to take the
simple action of restoring the Food for
Peace program so that kids like this
can have a chance.
f
RECOGNIZING SUICIDE
PREVENTION MONTH
(Mr. DESAULNIER asked and was
given permission to address the House

nately, this kind of tragedy is too com-
mon in America.
There were 1.4 million suicide at-
tempts in 2019, making suicide one of
the most pressing public health crises
in America. In 2023, over 49,000 Ameri-
cans died by suicide. Of those deaths,
nearly 6 out of 10 involved a firearm.
Firearms also account for just 5 per-
cent of American suicide attempts, but
unfortunately, firearms account for
over 50 percent of the deaths.
This points to a disturbing trend that
those who attempt suicide by other
means often regret their attempt. They
don’t do it again, and they seek help.
That option, unfortunately, is rarely
available to those people like my dad
who had a weapon available.
Too many people don’t seek help
when they need it. Whether they are
held back by fear, stigma, or lack of
access, we need to do more as a society
to remove all the barriers and encour-
age open and supportive communities.
Please, if you are having issues
around depression or suicidal thoughts,
seek help and call 988.
f
HONORING BOB HALLMARK,
SIGNING OFF FROM KLTV
(Under the Speaker’s announced pol-
icy of January 3, 2025, Mr. MORAN of
Texas was recognized for 60 minutes as
the designee of the majority leader.)
Mr. MORAN. Mr. Speaker, I rise
today to honor Bob Hallmark. After
nearly three decades of reporting, sto-
rytelling, and shining a light on east
Texas, Bob Hallmark is signing off
from KLTV.
I couldn’t let this moment go with-
out thanking him for his service.
Over the years what has always stood
out is the way he approached every
story with fairness, professionalism,
and genuine heart for our community.
He had a way of making people feel
seen, respected, and understood.
Whether he was covering a serious
issue or adding a little humor to the
day, Bob was always thoughtful and
brought his full self to the job.
Bob never lost sight of the people be-
hind the headlines. He knew every
story mattered to someone, and he
treated those stories with care. That is
rare, and it is why so many trusted him
not just as a journalist but as a friend
and neighbor.
Mr. Speaker, we will miss hearing
‘‘Bob Hallmark, KLTV News’’ at the
end of every story, but we are grateful
for the many years that we did hear
those words.
May Bob enjoy the well-earned next
chapter of his life.
I congratulate Bob. I thank him for
telling the story of east Texas so well
for so long.

PAGE 16

At 95 years young, Mr. Buie con-
tinues to set the bar for what leader-
ship, service, and lasting impact mean.
For decades, he has been a pillar of the
Tyler business community, in both pro-
fessional success and his deep commit-
ment to giving back to the community.
This award is not just about his ca-
reer. It is about his legacy, a legacy
built on hard work, generosity, and an
unwavering belief in the next genera-
tion.
As Mr. Buie said himself: ‘‘Junior
Achievement is standing at the top of
the place to let these young people
know what it is to be entrepreneurs, to
be workers, businesspeople, how to
handle finances, how to be a good com-
munity leader.’’
These values have been lived out by
Mr. Buie for decades.
This year alone, Junior Achievement
of Tyler will reach more than 8,300 stu-
dents, inspiring young minds to dream
bigger and to plan wiser.
This mission aligns perfectly with
the life and leadership of Herb Buie. He
is not just a role model. He is a real-
life example of what happens when a
person leads with a heart of purpose.
I thank Herb Buie for his leadership,
his vision, and the powerful example
that he continues to set for all of us. I
congratulate him on this well-deserved
honor. East Texas is better with him in
the community.
HONORINGROUNDUPDAY
Mr. MORAN. Mr. Speaker, I rise
today to honor Roundup Day. This day
celebrates the East Texas State Fair
and Rodeo.
The fair and rodeo bring about count-
less memories for east Texans.
Through the fair, we are able to come
together in the community and enjoy
games, rides, and incredible fair food.
We must not lose sight of the true
mission of the weekend, though: bring-
ing together agricultural heritage,
families, and the community. This hap-
pens in so many locations nationwide.
The weekend also centers around
youth development and education.
Since 1992, the fair has awarded over
$2.1 million to east Texas youth in
scholarships and premiums.
In total, the East Texas State Fair
brings an estimated economic impact
of $10 million to the Tyler and Smith
County communities. That is simply
remarkable.
We receive visitors of all types, in-
cluding local families, concertgoers,
exhibitors, vendors, contest partici-
pants, school groups, entertainers,
workers, sponsors, and volunteers. Ev-
eryone who attends these events cre-
ates an exciting atmosphere where the
community can thrive.
I hope everyone enjoys another in-
credible year at the East Texas State
Fair and Rodeo, and I can’t wait for my

which has been named the Small Busi-
ness Administration’s Family-Owned
Business of the Year for the Dallas-
Fort Worth district.
Since its founding in 1943, Bear Creek
Smokehouse has stood as a true east
Texas success story. For more than 80
years, the Shoults family has poured
their time, energy, and faith into
building not just a business but a leg-
acy.
What began as a small family oper-
ation has grown into a nationally rec-
ognized name, while never losing its
deep roots in our community.
The success of Bear Creek Smoke-
house is built on the values that never
go out of style: hard work, integrity,
and unwavering commitment to excel-
lence.
Guided by the family’s motto, Food,
Faith and Family, this fourth-genera-
tion business continues to embody the
very best of the American entrepre-
neurial spirit. Their products reflect
quality. Their service reflects care.
Their impact on east Texas reflects
generations of dedication.
This recognition is not only a cele-
bration of Bear Creek Smokehouse’s
accomplishments but also a testament
to the importance of family-owned
businesses across America. They re-
mind us that when families work to-
gether, they can build enterprises that
nourish both body and soul, while
strengthening the communities they
serve.
I congratulate the entire staff at
Bear Creek Smokehouse and Robbie,
Brenda, and Hunter Shoults on this
well-deserved honor. I am confident
that they will continue to inspire,
serve, and succeed for generations to
come.
b 1140
HONORINGGILMERINDEPENDENTSCHOOL
DISTRICT
Mr. MORAN. Mr. Speaker, I rise
today to honor Gilmer Independent
School District.
We recently received some fantastic
news from the Texas Education Agen-
cy. Gilmer Elementary School, Gilmer
High School, Gilmer Intermediate
School, and the Gilmer Early Child-
hood Center received an A rating for
the 2024–2025 school year.
The TEA A through F accountability
system evaluates schools and districts
based on a range of performance indi-
cators, including students’ achieve-
ments, academic growth, college and
career readiness, and how effectively
schools support their most at-risk stu-
dents.
An A rating means that Gilmer isn’t
just meeting the mark, they are ex-
ceeding expectations across the board.
This kind of recognition sends a strong
message: Great things are happening in

teachers, the faculty, staff, parents,
and students. Together, they work tire-
lessly to ensure excellence in all of
their programs. Gilmer ISD looks to
their core principles in all that they
do: excellence, achievement, character,
and commitment.
I look forward to seeing the incred-
ible work that they do this year and
the great successes that lie ahead. Go,
Buckeyes.
HONORINGCHARLIECANO
Mr. MORAN. Mr. Speaker, I rise
today to honor Charlie Cano.
As CEO of Etex, Charlie leads his
team to great successes. Charlie is a
leader whose work has truly changed
lives across rural Texas. I am proud to
congratulate him on receiving the Nev-
ille Haynes Award, the highest honor
from the Texas Telephone Association.
For more than a decade, Charlie has
led Etex with vision, integrity, and a
deep commitment to connecting the
unconnected. Under his leadership,
Etex hasn’t just expanded broadband,
it has brought real opportunity to
rural east Texas.
This award encapsulates a career
dedicated to service, advocacy, and the
belief that every community, no mat-
ter how small or how remote, deserves
access to the digital future.
Charlie’s impact goes far beyond
technology. He has raised the standard
for what it means to serve customers,
neighbors, and friends.
I congratulate Charlie on this well-
deserved recognition and thank him for
providing that leadership that is rooted
in community. We know that because
of his leadership, anything is possible.
HONORINGTEXARKANACOLLEGE
Mr. MORAN. Mr. Speaker, I rise
today to honor Texarkana College.
Earlier this month, the Texas Higher
Education Coordinating Board released
its 2024 accountability measures, and I
am proud to share that Texarkana Col-
lege has earned the number one rank-
ing in the entire State of Texas for 3-
year and 6-year student completion
rates. This is among all 50 public col-
leges in the entire State of Texas.
Even more impressive, Texarkana
College’s 3-year completion rate is
nearly double the State average. This
is truly extraordinary.
These are more than numbers. This
represents the lives that are changed
and our future that is strengthened.
When a student completes their edu-
cation, it opens doors for themselves,
for their children, and for generations
to come. The effect of this success is
felt throughout our workforce, our
local economy, and our entire region.
This accomplishment did not happen
by chance. It is the direct result of
years of strategic efforts, innovation,
and hard work by President Dr. Jason

PAGE 17

one three times in the past decade and
in the top five nine times. This consist-
ency speaks volumes about the leader-
ship, the systems in place, and a heart
behind the work being done.
I extend my heartfelt congratula-
tions to the entire Texarkana commu-
nity and the Texarkana College. They
are making a difference and building
the right future for east Texas.
HONORINGFOUROUTSTANDINGMEMBERSOF
MOUNTPLEASANTFIREDEPARTMENT
Mr. MORAN. Mr. Speaker, I rise
today to honor the Deputy Chief
Aristeo Rodriguez, Captain Adam
Decker, driver Phil Fry, and firefighter
Aaron Williams of the Mount Pleasant
Fire Department.
Four outstanding members of the
Mount Pleasant Fire Department were
awarded the Life Saving Medal. This is
a distinction reserved for those whose
actions directly result in saving lives.
These brave men and women exemplify
the highest ideals of public service. In
moments of danger when every second
counts and hesitation can cost lives,
they acted with clarity, courage, and
incredible skill.
Because of these individuals, some-
one’s child, spouse, friend, or loved one
is alive today. We often speak about
public safety in terms of equipment,
training, or response times, and those
things are certainly critical, but at the
heart of it all is character.
These four men embodied the spirit
of selfless service. They do not act cou-
rageously for recognition. They act be-
cause it is who they are. It is what
they are called to do day in and day
out. They act quietly and humbly with
steadiness and steadfastness.
On behalf of a grateful city and com-
munity and on behalf of a grateful
State and Nation, we thank them for
their commitment, for their bravery,
and for their service. Their extraor-
dinary service has made a true dif-
ference in the community.
To the four honorees, they are our
protectors. They are our heroes. I con-
gratulate them on this incredible
award and Godspeed and God’s bless-
ings and God’s protection for each of
them moving forward.
HONORING75THANNIVERSARYOFST. JOHN’S
EPISCOPALCHURCH
Mr. MORAN. Mr. Speaker, I rise
today to honor the 75th anniversary of
St. John’s Episcopal Church located in
Carthage, Texas.
On July 29, 1950, a handful of Epis-
copalians met with Reverend John
Fritts in the abandoned theater on the
square. This marked the first Episcopal
service in Carthage. This marked the
birth of St. John’s Episcopal Church in
Carthage.
Within a year, there were enough
members to form a mission with the

ing right before Christmas. The com-
munity did not waver. It began meet-
ing in people’s homes and continued
the work of Christ. This is a true testa-
ment of the resilience of the Carthage
community.
The church has expanded throughout
the years to include a parish hall and
an education wing, but the congrega-
tion outshines the four walls they meet
in. St. John’s Episcopal Church has re-
mained a pillar of the Carthage com-
munity for 75 years and has made a dif-
ference in countless lives during that
time.
As we look to the future, we trust
God will continue to guide and
strengthen this faithful congregation.
We ask over the next 75 years St.
John’s Episcopal Church be filled with
greater service, unity, and spiritual
growth in Carthage and beyond; just as
they have seen over the past 75 years.
HONORINGLIFEOFCHARLIEKIRK
Mr. MORAN. Mr. Speaker, I rise
today with a heavy heart to honor the
life of Charlie Kirk. Charlie was a
faithful servant, not only to the cause
of liberty, but more importantly, to
the kingdom of God.
His voice was strong in the public
square, but his true mission was always
to direct people to Jesus Christ our
Savior and our only hope through His
truth.
We also lift up his beloved wife,
Erika, and their children. May the
Lord wrap them in his arms of comfort
and peace during this time of personal
and national grief.
Political violence has no place in
America. We are all first and foremost
children of God and citizens of one Na-
tion under Him. Before we are Demo-
crats or Republicans, we are Ameri-
cans, neighbors called to love one an-
other. We each have equal and eternal
value in the sight of our creator, and
we should each treat each other with
that equal and eternal value.
Charlie treated others this way as he
engaged in debate on tough topics in
the public square. He did so in a civil,
respectful, and dignified manner, just
the way it is supposed to be done. He
did so from a heart of love, not one of
hate.
We should follow his example as we
engage in our debates moving forward
in this Nation. We should look to how
he treated others, how he saw others,
and how he sought to preserve liberty
and our Republic.
May Charlie’s witness inspire us to
walk humbly, to speak truth boldly,
and to fix our eyes upon the eternal
promises of God. May the grace of our
Lord Jesus Christ be with Erika, their
family, and all who mourn his passing.
b 1150
Mr. Speaker, I yield to the gentleman

by an assassin’s bullet. He is survived
by his wife, Erika, and their two young
children, who will never see their dad
at a T-ball game, a high school gradua-
tion, or a wedding.
Make no mistake about it: Charlie
Kirk was assassinated. He was an in-
credibly effective force in American
politics. He was beloved for his So-
cratic style of going to college cam-
puses and gently and charitably asking
questions and engaging in respectful
dialogue with those whom he dis-
agreed.
Most of all, he was a very convincing
advocate for the love of God, family,
and country, the hatred of which is a
sacred creed of the left. They could not
have it. They killed him.
In April of this year, Charlie pro-
phetically said on social media:
‘‘Assassination culture is spreading
on the left. Forty-eight percent of lib-
erals say it would be at least somewhat
justified to murder Elon Musk. Fifty-
five percent said the same thing about
Donald Trump.’’
‘‘The left is being whipped into a vio-
lent frenzy. Any setback, whether los-
ing an election or losing a court case,
justifies a maximally violent response.
‘‘This is the natural outgrowth of
leftwing protest culture tolerating vio-
lence and mayhem for years on end.
The cowardice of local prosecutors and
school officials have turned the left
into a ticking time bomb.’’
That was Charlie Kirk in April.
Yesterday, a social media post of
mine hit a nerve when I called Charlie
a martyr. Without question, he was.
The Athenians put Socrates to death
for the simple crime of asking ques-
tions about culture and society and the
meaning of life itself. Socrates was, in
that sense, a martyr to the truth, and
so was Charlie Kirk, but Charlie was
also a martyr for Jesus Christ.
A priest friend of mine sent me this
short passage from St. Bede, referring
to John the Baptist:
‘‘There is no doubt that blessed John
suffered imprisonment and chains as a
witness to our Redeemer, whose fore-
runner he was, and gave his life for
him. His persecutor demanded not that
he should deny Christ, but only that he
should keep silent about the truth.
Nevertheless, he died for Christ. Does
Christ not say: I am the truth? There-
fore, because John shed his blood for
the truth, he surely died for Christ.’’
Charlie also died as he was answering
a question about the transgender cult
that has gripped so much of our society
and destroyed the life and health of so
many of our young people.
They couldn’t stand for that, so they
killed Charlie, martyr for the truth
and to Christ.
What for us? Well, everything has

PAGE 18

false, and the ugly. They literally will
kill those with whom they disagree,
just as their predecessor leftists Marx,
Stalin, Lenin, Pol Pot, and Fidel Cas-
tro did. We must know that. We must
stand firm, and we must win this twi-
light struggle.
They killed Charlie, but as Tertullian
wrote in the second century when the
church was very much persecuted:
‘‘The blood of martyrs is the seed of
the church.’’
May God raise up thousands of Char-
lie Kirks to take his place.
To my fellow warriors in this fight:
Hold your families tight. Be safe. Pray
even for those who persecute you. Yes,
most of all, pray.
Charlie Kirk, martyr for the truth,
pray for us.
Mr. MORAN. Mr. Speaker, I yield
back the balance of my time.
f
APPOINTMENT OF CONFEREES ON
H.R. 3944, MILITARY CONSTRUC-
TION, VETERANS AFFAIRS, AND
RELATED AGENCIES APPROPRIA-
TIONS ACT, 2026
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Without
objection, the Chair appoints the fol-
lowing conferees on H.R. 3944:
Messrs. COLE, ADERHOLT, CARTER of
Texas, HARRIS of Maryland, VALADAO,
NEWHOUSE, MOOLENAAR, RUTHERFORD,
CLINE, Mrs. HINSON, Ms. LETLOW,
Messrs. GUEST, ZINKE, Mrs. BICE,
Messrs. SCOTT FRANKLIN of Florida,
LALOTA, STRONG, Ms. MALOY, Mr.
MOORE of West Virginia, Ms. DELAURO,
Mr. HOYER, Ms. KAPTUR, Mr. BISHOP,
Ms. WASSERRMAN SCHULTZ, Mr.
CUELLAR, Ms. PINGREE, Messrs.
QUIGLEY, ESPAILLAT, Ms. UNDERWOOD,
Mr. LEVIN, Mses. ESCOBAR, PEREZ.
There was no objection.
f
APPOINTMENT OF MEMBERS TO
THE SELECT COMMITTEE TO IN-
VESTIGATE THE REMAINING
QUESTIONS SURROUNDING JANU-
ARY 6, 2021
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
Chair announces the Speaker’s ap-
pointment, pursuant to House Resolu-
tion 605, and the order of the House of
January 3, 2025, of the following Mem-
bers to the Select Committee to Inves-
tigate the Remaining Questions Sur-
rounding January 6, 2021:
Mr. LOUDERMILK, Chair,
Mr. GRIFFITH,
Mr. HIGGINSof Louisiana,
Mr. NEHLS,
Ms. HAGEMAN,
Mr. SWALWELL,
Ms. CROCKETT, and
Mr. MOSKOWITZ.
f
DARK DAYS

I rise, Mr. Speaker, as a liberated
Democrat.
I rise, Mr. Speaker, unbought,
unbossed, unafraid.
I rise, Mr. Speaker, as the only Mem-
ber of the House of Representatives to
be removed from a joint session of Con-
gress and, thereafter, to be censured. I
have been censured, Mr. Speaker, but I
have not been silenced. Censured, but
not silenced.
Mr. Speaker, I rise today in agree-
ment with the President. This is, in-
deed, a dark day. Yesterday was a dark
day—dark days because of lives that
have been lost. This day, the USA
Today has published an article styled:
‘‘24 years after 9/11, alliances frac-
tured,’’ referring to what happened on
9/11, the lives that were lost to ter-
rorism.
Then, Mr. Speaker, there is another
article that I would call to your atten-
tion in The Washington Times. It is
styled: Growing leftwing violence
blamed for deadly shooting.
Mr. Speaker, I wish to address vio-
lence. I wish to address violence, and I
wish to start by indicating that, yes-
terday, I published a tweet. This tweet,
Mr. Speaker, indicated, in essence, that
this is the time for all persons of good
will to take a stand against violence
and that persons should do this because
Dr. King was right, and his words are
right today:
‘‘We must all learn to live together
as brothers,’’ he said. I would add: and
sisters.
We must all learn to live together as
brothers and sisters, or we will perish
together as fools.
I did not know Mr. Kirk. I don’t be-
lieve I have ever met him. I meet a lot
of people, so I may have, but I don’t be-
lieve that I have.
Here is what I know about him: He
was a human being. He was a child of
the same creator who created me. He
had every right to express his views. He
had every right to differ with me and
anybody else as much as he wanted to.
He had every right to be where he was
and to speak on the issues of impor-
tance to him in ways that I might not
agree with, but he had a right to do
this.
He had a right to life. He had a right
to say these things in venues across
the length and breadth of this country
and, I would say, across the globe.
These were his rights.
He had the right to be where he was
and to do what he was doing.
I don’t know him as a person who has
said things that I would always agree
with, but I want his wife and his chil-
dren to know that I am saddened by his
demise.
b 1200

ple lose their lives, be assassinated,
and then people gloat and celebrate an
assassination.
I ask today: What did Mr. Kirk and
the victims of 9/11 and the persons who
have died in churches while praying,
persons who were killed as they were
praying in various religious institu-
tions, children who have been mur-
dered in schools, what did they all have
in common? The one thing that they
all had in common, and there may be
others, is that they were innocent peo-
ple. They were innocent people. They
were innocent people going about their
business. None of them were breaking
the law.
This is bigger than any one of us or
any group of us. It is bigger than any
person’s religiosity. It is bigger than
where you happen to be at a given
time. This is about the right to life and
the right to speak freely. It is about
what the Constitution affords all of us
in this country and about the necessity
for every one of us to protect these
constitutional rights.
This is about people who have been
fortunate enough to have been born in
the United States of America or people
who have come to the United States of
America. It is about people who just
happen to be passing through.
It is about the right to life, liberty,
and the pursuit of happiness, and espe-
cially life, because without life, you
cannot have the liberty and the pursuit
of happiness.
All of these people have in common
the fact that they were innocent and
the fact that they have lost their lives,
some to terrorism, persons who came
to this country to impose and inflict
terrorism upon people, and some from
terrorists within the country, some
from people who were just crazed, some
from people who were persons who
should not have had the opportunity to
have the type of weaponry that they
had. But they were all persons who
were innocent. They were all persons
who had this right to life that I stand
for.
Today, I believe it appropriate that I
first say a prayer, and then after the
prayer, I will make some comments
about current circumstances.
I don’t ask everyone to pray with me.
You pray with me if you desire. If you
choose to do other things, then do
those other things, but I pray this
prayer for my country.
Most Gracious Creator, we know You
by many names, but we also know that
by any name You are the creator of all
that was, is, and ever shall be. By any
name, You created air, the breath of
life. By any name, You created water,
the elixir of life. By any name, You
created the star that we call Sun, the
light and warmth of life. By any name,
You created the terra firma that we

PAGE 19

Your creation. I ask You to give me
the strength as I speak today to talk
about the circumstances that have cre-
ated concerns that have to be ad-
dressed. I beg that You would give me
the strength in Your name, by what-
ever name I make this appeal.
Now, Mr. Speaker, allow me to ad-
dress CNN. Yes, I am a Congressperson
who believes that you have to speak
truth not only to power but also truth
about power.
I want to address CNN. I understand
that when you do this, you are not
likely to get an invitation to be on
their airwaves. I understand it. They
have the power to mute by simply de-
nying you access, but I just thank God
for C–SPAN, unfiltered C–SPAN. C–
SPAN does not mute. C–SPAN does not
conclude that because you are a person
who will speak truth to power and
about power that you shouldn’t have
access to the airwaves.
I am going to talk about C–SPAN
now because it was on C–SPAN this day
that I heard one of their reporters indi-
cate that we should, not in these exact
words perhaps, but that we should tone
down the language, and indicate that
we should probably be concerned about
certain words, two were mentioned.
We should be concerned about saying
‘‘fascism,’’ language that is incitive is
the way it was put—perhaps not in
these exact words, but incitive lan-
guage, language that would cause peo-
ple to do ugly things, incitive lan-
guage, ‘‘fascism.’’
Then, this reporter mentioned an-
other word, allegedly a word that
would create, what I would call, some
spark within a person that might drive
a person to say something or do some-
thing that would be harmful, incitive
language. Well, that word was ‘‘rac-
ism.’’
Now, this reporter mentioned fascism
and racism on CNN. Yes, I am going to
continue to demean CNN for what they
have done. I know that this reporter
meant well.
By the way, I have respect for the re-
porter, but I know what is happening
at CNN and how CNN has become a sta-
tus quo news source. To maintain the
status quo, CNN will do things that,
quite frankly, don’t allow us to make
the change necessary to benefit all
Americans.
This reporter mentioned these two
words, ‘‘fascism’’ and ‘‘racism,’’ as in-
citive terms. Interesting to note, the
reporter did not say ‘‘anti-Semitism.’’
By the way, I fight anti-Semitism
every day of my life. I am antithetical
to it, and I am going to fight it. I think
we have to end anti-Semitism. I am
going to fight to end anti-Semitism,
but on CNN, ‘‘anti-Semitism’’ is a word
that you can use to address the anti-

forms. These are all forms of invidious
discrimination. It is all right to ad-
dress anti-Semitism, but not racism.
If you are going to talk about racism,
you have to use softer language be-
cause the word ‘‘racism’’ is incitive, ac-
cording to CNN.
b 1210
Well, CNN is saying to the world,
they want to end anti-Semitism, as I
do, but they are saying they want to
manage racism. CNN manages racism
by not allowing it to be addressed and
confronted to the same extent as they
would allow anti-Semitism to be ad-
dressed.
Again, I am antithetical to, I am
going to fight anti-Semitism, but I am
also going to fight racism. I am not
going to kneel. I am not going to
cower. I am not going to back off. Rac-
ism has to be fought. It has to be dealt
with because it, too, exists in this
country.
We cannot pretend that racism
doesn’t exist. If we are going to ac-
knowledge invidious discrimination,
we have to acknowledge it in all of its
forms, and I would hope that CNN
would get a better understanding of
what it is doing by managing racism
and doing what it can to eliminate
anti-Semitism.
It is my belief that people of good
will can fight both racism and anti-
Semitism, and if we are going to do it,
we have got to speak truth about
power. We have got to speak truth to
those people who have already con-
cluded that the loss of Mr. Kirk, the
conservative activist, as is stated in
The Washington Times, already con-
cluded that this was some leftwing per-
son, and then they used plural lan-
guage and say ‘‘they,’’ the leftwing.
If it was a leftwing person—I don’t
put any special boundaries around that
person—whoever it is, ought to be pun-
ished to the fullest extent that the law
allows. It doesn’t matter what their
party affiliation is. But what does mat-
ter is you shouldn’t jump to conclu-
sions. We don’t have the empirical evi-
dence of what happened, last I heard.
Maybe it has been announced just re-
cently. I am talking about the authori-
ties. For people to come to the floor of
the House and make statements about
how leftwing people have caused this to
manifest itself, Mr. Kirk’s demise,
without any evidence of it, and for
CNN to infer in some way that ‘‘rac-
ism’’ is a term that may have pro-
moted what happened to this man;
they are wrong. They are wrong to do
it. Members of Congress who do it are
wrong.
To blame the harm that was caused
to some person who is said to be on the
left or on the right, that is wrong. You

havior, language that may in some way
influence people, then you are going to
have to start at the top. You are going
to have to start at the top. You are
going to have to start with a President
of the United States who told police of-
ficers: You don’t have to be nice when
you are arresting people. The President
of the United States told people at one
of his rallies that they could assault
someone who was there and not to
worry about it. The President of the
United States says ugly things about
people. The President of the United
States came right here, and right at
that podium just below the Speaker
called Democrats lunatics. It was the
same night that I was evicted from the
joint session of Congress, the only per-
son ever to be evicted. The President
was right there at that podium. That
President at the podium said that the
Democrats were lunatics. Is that inci-
tive language?
I say to CNN, here is what is inter-
esting about it. You allow the Presi-
dent’s language to be spoken, but you
won’t allow people to come on your
station and talk about the racism that
exists, and it does.
If we are going to talk about how
these things are developed, speak in
terms of individuals. The President of
the United States of America has de-
cided that the Department of Defense
will be the Department of War now,
taking us a quantum leap backwards in
time to when it was previously the De-
partment of War, but we had the good
sense to understand that it would be
better to be a Department of Defense
than to be warmongers.
The same President who says he
wants the Nobel Peace Prize changes
the Department of Defense to the De-
partment of War. The same President
who has promoted what is happening to
the Palestinians in Gaza; who has gone
so far as to say: Let’s just buy that
property or take it and make it some
sort of resort. The same President who
went so far as to say to Mr. Netanyahu:
Yes, you can go on, you can do what
you need to do. It was not in those
exact words, but that was the implica-
tion. This is the same President who
wants the Nobel Peace Prize.
I cannot believe that the Nobel Com-
mittee, the Nobel authorities would
ever give a person who has behaved as
this President has—who wants a De-
partment of War, who has sanctioned
the collective punishment against the
Palestinians, sanctioned the ethnic
cleansing against the Palestinians,
sanctioned ethnic cleansing, collective
punishment—the Nobel Peace Prize.
I know you are waiting for me to say
the other word. Yes, I am going to say
it. This President has sanctioned the
most heinous of crimes against human-

PAGE 20

To those people who want to blame
the leftwing for things, if a leftwing
person has done something, I am not
opposed to that person being blamed. I
will blame that person. However, don’t
blame all people who happen to be on
what you call the leftwing for what is
happening. Don’t do that. Explain what
the person has done.
I came to this floor. I am here in this
House now, and I am giving you ex-
plicit things. Tell me what the so-
called leftwing has done. They speak in
these broad, general terms about peo-
ple without giving the explicit evi-
dence of the thing that they claim that
they have done. Speak with specifici-
ties. Have the courage to speak with
specificities. They don’t have the cour-
age to speak with specificities. They
just want to use a broad brush.
Yes, I am going to say it, the Presi-
dent doesn’t deserve the Nobel Peace
Prize because he has sanctioned geno-
cide in Gaza. The world sees it, and
this Congress sees it, with not one res-
olution to condemn the genocide tak-
ing place in Gaza, not one. There won’t
be one. There won’t be one. Not one.
b 1220
Few people are going to come to this
floor and say it even exists. We are
going to manage genocide in Gaza and
condemn what is happening in Ukraine.
How can you condemn what is hap-
pening in Ukraine and not condemn
what is happening in Gaza? You can’t
do it, not in a righteous way, not in a
righteous way.
The Congress of the United States of
America ought to be on record con-
demning what is happening to the Pal-
estinians. For those who would claim
that they have no reason to be, that
this is just something that we should
allow the Israelis and the Palestinians
to resolve, here is my retort. Your tax
dollars, your tax dollars are fueling the
genocide that is taking place. If you
wanted to do something about it, you
wouldn’t fund it. Those planes are our
planes. The munitions are our muni-
tions.
Now, someone is going to say that I
am somehow creating the fervor, the
incitive response that may take place
because I speak the truth. Truth has,
in and of itself, an absolute defense.
Who can deny? Who will deny in good
faith that what is happening in Gaza is
something other than genocide? It is
genocide. We have the blood of what is
happening to those innocent people on
our hands.
I started by talking about innocent
people. They are among the innocents.
We can’t care more about some babies
than other babies. We will allow the
killing of Palestinian babies and
maybe every now and then say some-

Palestinian babies and children haven’t
been to school in years now. What is
going to happen to them?
We have now allowed Mr. Netanyahu
to go into Palestine, into Gaza, and go
to Gaza City. It is obvious that he is
trying to destroy it. Yes, he is trying
to destroy it. There will be no home for
the Palestinians. They have already de-
stroyed roads, bridges, schools, hos-
pitals. Mr. Netanyahu doesn’t want
peace. He wants all of Palestine. I
speak in specificities, all of Palestine.
He doesn’t want peace.
In fact, the Knesset just last year
took a vote, and the vote was to say in
explicit terms there will be no Pales-
tinian state from the river to the sea,
from the river to the sea, not in those
exact words. They said west of the Jor-
dan. That is the river, and west of the
Jordan is Gaza. From the river to the
sea, west of Jordan, West Bank, from
the river to the sea.
If you say ‘‘from the river to the
sea,’’ you will be sanctioned by this
Congress. We can’t say that. The
Knesset in Israel can pass in that body
legislation saying that there will be no
Palestinian state from the river to the
sea.
Here is my point. From the river to
the sea, Palestine and Israel must be
free, both of them, two states. I stand
for a two-state solution. There are oth-
ers who stand for evicting the Palestin-
ians, sending them to some other place.
This is their land, their home. They
have got every right to live where they
live, and this war has gone on too long,
taken too many lives.
What happened at the genesis of this
with the attack on Israel was wrong. It
was sinful. It was harmful. It was ter-
rorism. It was something that merited
a response, but it didn’t merit collec-
tive punishment. It didn’t merit ethnic
cleansing, and it didn’t merit genocide.
Those are crimes against humanity.
Today, dear friends, I will mourn the
death of Mr. Kirk and all of the persons
who have died in their places of wor-
ship, killed at the hands of assassins,
all of the children who have died in
schools. It is about all of them and all
of the people who died on 9/11.
Any person who is on the left who
has committed a crime against another
person, violence against another per-
son, I condemn you. Any person on the
right who has committed a crime
against another person, I condemn you.
I speak with specificities about the in-
citive commentary emanating from the
highest office in the United States of
America. We see it, but we ignore it.
I refuse to ignore it. I don’t believe in
committing crimes. I have spoken from
this very podium, this very area about
peaceful protests. I have indicated to
people, no violence. I am a person who

I have stood right here at this po-
dium and talked about peaceful protest
and how we must engage in peaceful
protest. Peaceful protest is what got
me to Congress. Most of the people who
are minorities in Congress, somehow
peaceful protest has benefited them.
If I could cite a single moment in
time, it would be at the Edmund
Pettus Bridge, 1965, on what we now
call Bloody Sunday, because at that
moment when they were trying to
cross and they were beaten, this is vio-
lence we are talking about, with speci-
ficity, I might add. Date: 1965. Place:
Edmund Pettus Bridge, Selma, Ala-
bama. People wanted to peacefully
march.
My dear brother, John Lewis, told me
the story of how he thought he was
going to die on that bridge, how they
were beaten all the way back to the
church where they started.
At the moment that happened and
the moments that followed, when Lyn-
don Johnson was accorded the oppor-
tunity to sign the Voting Rights Act of
1965, when he signed that Voting
Rights Act of 1965, when he signed it.
Yes, he signed it with ink. Yes, it was
a pen.
b 1230
Mr. Speaker, it was written with the
blood at the Edmund Pettus Bridge.
That is why it is called Bloody Sunday.
It was on a Sunday that it occurred. It
is Bloody Sunday.
Mr. Speaker, I speak in specificities.
When he signed it, yes, there were only
six Members of Congress who were of
African ancestry that we know of.
There may have been some others that
we didn’t know of because of the defini-
tion of how someone becomes a person
of African ancestry, their blood and
that sort of thing. We knew there were
six. There were five persons who were
Latinos. There were four persons who
were Asian.
Since the signing of the Voting
Rights Act of 1965, section 2 of the Vot-
ing Rights Act, section 4 of voting
right act, section 5 of Voting Rights
Act. All of these in concert, working
together, we acquired more than 60
people of African ancestry in this Con-
gress. More than 50 persons in this Con-
gress are Latinos. More than 20 persons
in this Congress have Asian heritage.
It is the Voting Rights Act. Yes, that
Voting Rights Act was there to deal
with racism. It says so in the act. It
says race. We can’t discriminate
against people based on race. It also
goes into some other aspects of dis-
crimination, all of them invidious, but
we can’t do it.
We have to say ‘‘racism’’ if we are
going to talk about the case involving
race. CNN doesn’t want that to be said.
If this were anti-Semitism, we could

PAGE 21

That is what is happening now across
this country, especially in Texas,
where the President of the United
States—specificities—had the Justice
Department to send a letter to the At-
torney General of the State of Texas,
indicating that four districts, all of
which had minority representation,
four districts should be redrawn be-
cause the State of Texas drew them
specifically such that minorities would
be elected.
Then the Attorney General from the
State of Texas had a retort. He refuted
what the Justice Department said. He
said: No, our lines were drawn for par-
tisan advantage.
That is lawful. If you draw the lines
with race in mind, then that is unlaw-
ful. We can’t draw lines to prevent peo-
ple from acquiring a representation
based upon race. We can’t do that.
The Attorney General refuted it.
That should have ended it; but, no, it
didn’t. Notwithstanding the evidence
that the Attorney General presented,
indicating that they didn’t do what the
letter from the Justice Department al-
leges, Texas went on.
What Texas has done is racist. We
can’t say that on CNN. If we say that
it is racist on CNN, we become persona
non grata. We are not going to be back
on CNN. If we are there, the host would
send little signals to let people know
that this was something that was im-
posed and not something that was de-
sired.
CNN is a status quo news network. I
am not a status quo Representative. I
want to change the status quo. I don’t
want to manage the status quo. CNN
does. CNN wants to manage racism and
eliminate anti-Semitism.
I want my dear friends to know that
what Texas has done is racist, and I am
using specificities. I have called to the
attention of the public those two let-
ters, and they are available.
Mr. Speaker, I have to do what I do.
I don’t ask others to follow me. I am
uniquely qualified to do what I do. I
only ask those others who know that I
am speaking truth: Don’t be the one to
try to trip me up. Just let me do what
I can do. My friends will do as best
they can to do what they can do. To-
gether, we will get things done.
We have to be truthful about our cir-
cumstances, or we will never end them.
They will always remain the same.
I close, my dear friends, my dear
brothers and sisters—and I say this be-
cause, like Dr. King, I believe that
there is but one race and that is the
human race. Like Dr. King, I believe
that all persons have been created
equal, as has been indicated and eluci-
dated in many documents that we hold
near and dear in this country. I believe
in one race. That is the human race.

If it turns out it is a leftwing person,
as defined by people, that is wrong. I
am not going to stand for that. Quite
frankly, I don’t know any Democrats
that would stand for that. It doesn’t
matter. We aren’t going to say the per-
son shouldn’t be punished.
I speak in specificities. I don’t come
to the floor and paint with a broad
brush. I don’t think all of my col-
leagues on the other side are racist. I
don’t label all of them as rightwing
nuts. If I see someone do something, I
am going to call them out. I am not
going to label everybody.
Mr. Speaker, I knew his humanity. I
knew that he had every right to say
what he was saying. He had every right
to say things that I would never agree
with. He had every right, if ever given
the opportunity, to vote against me.
That is not a reason for anybody to im-
pose violence upon him.
He had every right to do these things
and walk away and go back home to
his family. He should have spent the
night either with his family or know-
ing that his family was secure and they
knew that he was secure. He had every
right to raise those babies.
This was a wrong that was per-
petrated. I want to go further and say
the people who have been killed in
their places of worship had every right
to worship as they chose and to do it in
their various places of worship.
Children have the right to go to
school. Their parents have the right to
pick them up at the end of the school
day.
I don’t label the attempt on Con-
gresswoman Giffords’ life as a right-
wing plot. I don’t do that.
I believe that people are responsible
for their behavior. On a day such as
this, I don’t know that we ought to
allow this to go unnoticed when there
is a headline that reads: Growing left-
wing violence blamed for deadly shoot-
ing.
I believe in specificities. I believe in
the decency that human beings should
afford each other.
I am going to continue to do that be-
cause Dr. King was and is right. We do
have to learn to live together, all of us,
as brothers and sisters, or we will all
perish together as fools.
Mr. Speaker, I yield back the balance
of my time.
The SPEAKER pro tempore (Mr.
MCDOWELL). Members are reminded to
refrain from engaging in personalities
toward the President.
f
b 1240
TRAGIC LOSS OF CHARLIE KIRK
(Under the Speaker’s announced pol-
icy of January 3, 2025, Mr. KILEY of
California was recognized for 30 min-

The depth of this tragedy is hard to
process: a life cut short at age 31, a
wife left without a husband and two
young children without a father.
The tributes that have poured in
these last 24 hours from people from all
walks of life and all corners of the po-
litical universe, the raw grief, and the
remarkable eulogies bear testament to
a life of generational importance, a life
cruelly limited in years but immeas-
urable in impact.
I offer my own heartfelt prayers
along with hundreds of millions of oth-
ers in this country and around the
world. As we pray for Charlie and his
loved ones, so too do I pray for our
country.
We are in a perilous moment. We
don’t yet have all the facts about yes-
terday’s horrifying events, and the
killer remains at large. What we do
know is that political division has con-
tinued to deepen in this country and
that political violence is on the rise.
With a loss this profound, with evil
this glaring, and with so much pain,
suffering, anger, and fear, this cycle
could escalate. A new, more severe
round of accusations and recrimina-
tions, of demonization and dehuman-
ization, could bring our politics and so-
ciety to a darker place.
That isn’t where things have to go.
This can also be an occasion for soul-
searching as a country. As all decent
people condemn this horrifying act of
political violence, we can be reminded
of the broader swath of common
ground that we share. It is a belief that
political differences should be resolved
through dialogue, debate, and elec-
tions, not force. It is a commitment to
the founding ideals of our country,
however differently we might conceive
of them at any given moment, that all
men and women are created equal and
are endowed by their creator with in-
alienable rights.
More basically, we all want to see
our economy thrive, our communities
safe, and our families happy and
healthy.
The last time we truly came together
around our shared ideals and aspira-
tions in a sustained way and stood sol-
idly together on the common ground of
our body politic was 24 years ago
today. The tragedy of September 11
crystallized America’s transcendent
values in a way that made every degree
of difference seem trifling.
We were all Americans then, and still
today, we are all Americans. I don’t be-
lieve that the generation that has
passed since 9/11 has depleted our abil-
ity to come together as a country, and
I don’t believe that an attack on the
homeland is the only thing that can re-
kindle it. At this moment, working to
rediscover that capacity for unity is a

PAGE 22

we are still friends and still family.
Politics isn’t everything, and politics
itself, when properly conducted, can
foster friendship and build community
even among ideological opponents.
That is what Charlie Kirk devoted
his life to. He brought people of all per-
spectives together to talk to one an-
other, to have a vigorous exchange of
ideas, to discuss how best we can fulfill
America’s promise, and to participate
in democracy.
Charlie Kirk’s example shows that
when you are willing to have conversa-
tions, Mr. Speaker, you often learn
things. You may not be persuaded by
your opponents, but you can appreciate
their perspective, see where they are
coming from, see them as people, dis-
cover surprising points of agreement,
and gain a more nuanced under-
standing of your own position by un-
derstanding theirs.
That is something we can all try to
do better, especially those of us in
elected office.
I ask every Member of this House,
myself included, to think hard about
how we can approach our work here
with a greater spirit of collegiality and
conciliation. In this terrible moment,
that has to be the path forward for our
country.
Mr. Speaker, I yield back the balance
of my time.
f
ADJOURNMENT
Mr. KILEY of California. Mr. Speak-
er, I move that the House do now ad-
journ.
The motion was agreed to; accord-
ingly (at 12 o’clock and 45 minutes
p.m.), under its previous order, the
House adjourned until Monday, Sep-
tember 15, 2025, at noon for morning-
hour debate.
f
OATH FOR ACCESS TO CLASSIFIED
INFORMATION
Under clause 13 of rule XXIII, the fol-
lowing Member executed the oath for
access to classified information:
James R. Walkinshaw
f
EXECUTIVE COMMUNICATIONS,
ETC.
Under clause 2 of rule XIV, executive
communications were taken from the
Speaker’s table and referred as follows:
EC–1914. A letter from the Acting Presi-
dent and Chairman, Board of Directors, Ex-
port-Import Bank of the United States,
transmitting a statement involving trans-
actions of exports to Pakistan, pursuant to
12 U.S.C. 635(b)(3); July 31, 1945, ch. 341, Sec.
2 (as added by Public Law 102-266, Sec. 102);
(106 Stat. 95); to the Committee on Financial
Services.
EC–1915. A letter from the Acting Presi-
dent and Chairman, Board of Directors, Ex-

EC–1916. A letter from the Section Chief,
Internal Revenue Service, transmitting the
Service’s final rule — Continuing Profes-
sional Education Requirements of the Joint
Board for the Enrollment of Actuaries [TD
10032] (RIN: 1545-BQ30) received September 5,
2025, pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A); Public
Law 104-121, Sec. 251; (110 Stat. 868); to the
Committee on Education and Workforce.
EC–1917. A letter from the Assistant Sec-
retary for Legislation, Department of Health
and Human Services, transmitting the De-
partment’s report, ‘‘Medicaid Services In-
vestment and Accountability Act of 2019 Pre-
venting the Misclassification of Drugs Under
the Medicaid Drug Rebate Program Federal
Fiscal Year 2024’’, pursuant to 42 U.S.C.
1396r-8(c)(4)(C)(i); Public Law 116-16, Sec.
6(b)(1); (133 Stat. 862); to the Committee on
Energy and Commerce.
EC–1918. A letter from the Senior Bureau
Official, Bureau of Legislative Affairs, De-
partment of State, transmitting Transmittal
No. DDTC 25-058 Certification of Proposed
Issuance of an Export License Pursuant to
Sec 36(c) of the Arms Export Control Act; to
the Committee on Foreign Affairs.
EC–1919. A letter from the Branch Chief,
Office of Sustainable Fisheries — Alaska Re-
gion, NMFS, National Oceanic and Atmos-
pheric Administration, transmitting the Ad-
ministration’s temporary rule — Fisheries of
the Exclusive Economic Zone Off Alaska; Re-
allocation of Pacific Cod in the Bering Sea
and Aleutian Islands Management Area
[Docket No.: 240304-0068; RTID 0648-XD854] re-
ceived September 5, 2025, pursuant to 5
U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A); Public Law 104-121, Sec.
251; (110 Stat. 868); to the Committee on Nat-
ural Resources.
EC–1920. A letter from the Branch Chief,
Office of Sustainable Fisheries — Southeast
Region, NMFS, National Oceanic and Atmos-
pheric Administration, transmitting the Ad-
ministration’s temporary rule — Fisheries of
the South Atlantic; Commercial Closure for
Blueline Tilefish in the South Atlantic
[Docket No.: 140501394-5279-02] (RTID: 0648-
XF042) received September 5, 2025, pursuant
to 5 U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A); Public Law 104-121,
Sec. 251; (110 Stat. 868); to the Committee on
Natural Resources.
EC–1921. A letter from the Branch Chief,
Office of Sustainable Fisheries — Alaska Re-
gion, NMFS, National Oceanic and Atmos-
pheric Administration, transmitting the Ad-
ministration’s temporary rule — Fisheries of
the Exclusive Economic Zone Off Alaska; Pa-
cific Cod by Catcher Vessels Greater Than or
Equal to 50 Feet Length Overall Using Hook-
and-Line Gear in the Central Regulatory
Area of the Gulf of Alaska [Docket No.:
240227-0061; RTID 0648-XD802] received Sep-
tember 5, 2025, pursuant to 5 U.S.C.
801(a)(1)(A); Public Law 104-121, Sec. 251; (110
Stat. 868); to the Committee on Natural Re-
sources.
EC–1922. A letter from the Branch Chief,
Office of Sustainable Fisheries — GARFO,
NMFS, National Oceanic and Atmospheric
Administration, transmitting the Adminis-
tration’s temporary rule — Fisheries of the
Northeastern United States; Summer Floun-
der Fishery; Quota Transfer From NC to NY
[Docket No.: 221223-0282; RTID 0648-XD616] re-
ceived September 5, 2025, pursuant to 5
U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A); Public Law 104-121, Sec.
251; (110 Stat. 868); to the Committee on Nat-
ural Resources.
EC–1923. A letter from the Branch Chief,
Office of Sustainable Fisheries — [SERO],

230427-0115; RTID 0648-XD523] received Sep-
tember 5, 2025, pursuant to 5 U.S.C.
801(a)(1)(A); Public Law 104-121, Sec. 251; (110
Stat. 868); to the Committee on Natural Re-
sources.
EC–1924. A letter from the Branch Chief,
Office of Sustainable Fisheries — HMS,
NMFS, National Oceanic and Atmospheric
Administration, transmitting the Adminis-
tration’s temporary rule — Atlantic Highly
Migratory Species; Atlantic Bluefin Tuna
Fisheries; General Category September Time
Period Quota Transfer and Closure [Docket
No.: 220523-0193; RTID 0648-XD337] received
September 5, 2025, pursuant to 5 U.S.C.
801(a)(1)(A); Public Law 104-121, Sec. 251; (110
Stat. 868); to the Committee on Natural Re-
sources.
EC–1925. A letter from the Branch Chief,
Office of Sustainable Fisheries — West Coast
Region, NMFS, National Oceanic and Atmos-
pheric Administration, transmitting the Ad-
ministration’s inseason modification of 2023
management measures — Fisheries Off West
Coast States; Modification of the West Coast
Salmon Fisheries; Inseason Action #17
[Docket No.: 230508-0124; RTID 0648-XD179] re-
ceived September 5, 2025, pursuant to 5
U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A); Public Law 104-121, Sec.
251; (110 Stat. 868); to the Committee on Nat-
ural Resources.
EC–1926. A letter from the Assistant Sec-
retary for Legislation, Department of Health
and Human Services, transmitting the De-
partment’s ‘‘2025 Report to Congress — An-
nual Update: Identification of Quality Meas-
urement Priorities and Associated Funding
for the Consensus-Based Entity and Other
Entities’’, pursuant to 42 U.S.C. 1395aaa(e);
Aug. 14 1935, ch. 531, title XVIII, Sec. 1890(e)
(as amended by Public Law 115-123, Sec.
50206(b)); (132 Stat. 184); jointly to the Com-
mittees on Energy and Commerce and Ways
and Means.
EC–1927. A letter from the Assistant Sec-
retary for Legislation, Department of Health
and Human Services, transmitting the De-
partment’s ‘‘Fiscal Year 2022 Report to Con-
gress: Review of Medicare’s Program for
Oversight of Accrediting Organizations (AOs)
and the Clinical Laboratory Improvement
Validation Program’’, pursuant to 42 U.S.C.
1395ll(b); Aug. 14, 1935, ch. 531, title XVIII,
Sec. 1875(b) (as amended by Public Law 110-
275, Sec. 125(b)(4)); (122 Stat. 2519); jointly to
the Committees on Energy and Commerce
and Ways and Means.
f
REPORTS OF COMMITTEES ON
PUBLIC BILLS AND RESOLUTIONS
Under clause 2 of rule XIII, reports of
committees were delivered to the Clerk
for printing and reference to the proper
calendar, as follows:
Mr. GUTHRIE: Committee on Energy and
Commerce. H.R. 3109. A bill to require the
Secretary of Energy to direct the National
Petroleum Council to issue a report with re-
spect to petrochemical refineries in the
United States, and for other purposes (Rept.
119–267). Referred to the Committee of the
Whole House on the state of the Union.
Mr. GUTHRIE: Committee on Energy and
Commerce. H.R. 3617. A bill to amend the De-
partment of Energy Organization Act to se-
cure the supply of critical energy resources,
including critical minerals and other mate-
rials, and for other purposes; with an amend-
ment (Rept. 119–268). Referred to the Com-

PAGE 23

Mr. GUTHRIE: Committee on Energy and
Commerce. H.R. 4312. A bill to protect the
name, image, and likeness rights of student
athletes and to promote fair competition
with respect to intercollegiate athletics, and
for other purposes; with an amendment
(Rept. 119–270, Pt. 1). Ordered to be printed.
Mr. WALBERG: Committee on Education
and Workforce. H.R. 4312. A bill to protect
the name, image, and likeness rights of stu-
dent athletes and to promote fair competi-
tion with respect to intercollegiate ath-
letics, and for other purposes; with an
amendment (Rept. 119–270, Pt. 2). Referred to
the Committee of the Whole House on the
state of the Union.
Mr. ADERHOLT: Committee on Appropria-
tions. H.R. 5304. A bill making appropria-
tions for the Departments of Labor, Health
and Human Services, and Education, and re-
lated agencies for the fiscal year ending Sep-
tember 30, 2026, and for other purposes (Rept.
119–271). Referred to the Committee of the
Whole House on the state of the Union.
f
PUBLIC BILLS AND RESOLUTIONS
Under clause 2 of rule XII, public
bills and resolutions of the following
titles were introduced and severally re-
ferred, as follows:
By Ms. BONAMICI (for herself and Mr.
THOMPSONof Pennsylvania):
H.R. 5295. A bill to amend the Workforce
Innovation and Opportunity Act to raise
public awareness for skilled trade programs,
and for other purposes; to the Committee on
Education and Workforce.
By Ms. BONAMICI (for herself and Mr.
THOMPSONof Pennsylvania):
H.R. 5296. A bill to require the Secretary of
Labor to award grants for promoting indus-
try or sector partnerships to encourage in-
dustry growth and competitiveness and to
improve worker training, retention, and ad-
vancement as part of an infrastructure in-
vestment; to the Committee on Education
and Workforce.
By Ms. BONAMICI (for herself, Mr.
GUTHRIE, Ms. STEVENS, and Mr. NUNN
of Iowa):
H.R. 5297. A bill to promote registered ap-
prenticeships and other work-based learning
programs for small and medium-sized busi-
nesses within in-demand industry sectors,
through the establishment and support of in-
dustry or sector partnerships; to the Com-
mittees on Education and Workforce and the
Judiciary.
By Ms. TLAIB (for herself, Ms. PIN-
GREE, Mr. HUFFMAN, Mrs. RAMIREZ,
Mr. MCGOVERN, Ms. OMAR, Mr.
KHANNA, Ms. MENG, Ms. SIMON, Mr.
GARCI´A of Illinois, Ms. JAYAPAL, Mr.
DELUZIO, Mrs. WATSON COLEMAN, Ms.
CLARKEof New York, Ms. BALINT, Ms.
PRESSLEY, Mr. PALLONE, Ms. LEE of
Pennsylvania, Mr. JACKSON of Illi-
nois, Ms. RANDALL, and Mr. MFUME):
H.R. 5298. A bill to amend the Internal Rev-
enue Code of 1986 to impose a corporate tax
rate increase on companies whose ratio of
compensation of the CEO or other highest
paid employee to median worker compensa-
tion is more than 50 to 1, and for other pur-
poses; to the Committee on Ways and Means.
By Mr. MAST:
H.R. 5299. A bill to modify and reauthorize
the Better Utilization of Investments Lead-

By Mr. GRAVES (for himself, Mr. LAR-
SEN of Washington, Mr. WEBSTER of
Florida, and Ms. TITUS):
H.R. 5301. A bill to amend title 49, United
States Code, to provide enhanced safety in
pipeline transportation, and for other pur-
poses; to the Committees on Transportation
and Infrastructure and Energy and Com-
merce .
By Mr. MASSIE (for himself, Mr.
GOSAR, and Ms. GREENEof Georgia):
H.R. 5302. A bill to prohibit United States
funds from being provided to foreign govern-
ments or organizations that subsidize or pro-
mote abortion, to codify the Mexico City
Policy, and for other purposes; to the Com-
mittee on Foreign Affairs.
By Mr. SMITH of New Jersey (for him-
self, Mr. SUOZZI, and Mr.
MOOLENAAR):
H.R. 5303. A bill to encourage and support
the Department of State’s diplomatic advo-
cacy efforts on behalf of Gao Zhisheng and
other political prisoners in the People’s Re-
public of China, including in Hong Kong, and
globally; to the Committees on Foreign Af-
fairs, the Judiciary, Financial Services, and
Ways and Means .
By Mr. ARRINGTON (for himself, Mr.
VINDMAN, Mr. GOSAR, and Mr.
GROTHMAN):
H.R. 5305. A bill to require any amounts re-
maining in the Members’ Representational
Allowance at the end of a fiscal year to be
deposited in the Treasury and used for def-
icit reduction or to reduce the Federal debt,
and for other purposes; to the Committee on
House Administration.
By Ms. BROWNLEY (for herself, Mr.
GOLDMAN of New York, Ms. CRAIG,
Mrs. WATSON COLEMAN, and Mr.
THANEDAR):
H.R. 5306. A bill to prohibit the sale of a
firearm unless the firearm or the packaging
of the firearm carries a label that provides
the number of the National Suicide Preven-
tion Lifeline, and for other purposes; to the
Committee on Energy and Commerce.
By Mr. CONAWAY:
H.R. 5307. A bill to provide a direct appro-
priation of funds for the Learn and Serve
America program of the Corporation for Na-
tional and Community Service and to expand
the eligibility of such program to additional
entities; to the Committees on Appropria-
tions and Education and Workforce.
By Mr. CONAWAY:
H.R. 5308. A bill to direct the Secretary of
Education to carry out grant programs to
encourage student participation in local gov-
ernment and volunteer service, and for other
purposes; to the Committee on Education
and Workforce.
By Ms. DELAURO (for herself, Mr.
ADERHOLT, Mr. GREEN of Texas, Mr.
AMO, Mr. AMODEI of Nevada, Ms.
BALINT, Ms. BARRAGA´N, Mrs. BEATTY,
Mr. BISHOP, Mr. BOYLE of Pennsyl-
vania, Ms. BROWN, Mr. CARBAJAL, Mr.
CARSON, Mr. CARTER of Louisiana,
Mrs. CHERFILUS-MCCORMICK, Ms.
CLARKE of New York, Mr. CLEAVER,
Mr. CLYBURN, Mr. COURTNEY, Ms.
CROCKETT, Mr. DAVIS of Illinois, Mr.
DAVISof North Carolina, Ms. DEANof
Pennsylvania, Mr. DESAULNIER, Mrs.
DINGELL, Mr. ELLZEY, Ms. ESCOBAR,
Mr. ESPAILLAT, Mr. EVANS of Penn-
sylvania, Mr. FITZPATRICK, Mr.
FLEISCHMANN, Mrs. FLETCHER, Mr.
FROST, Mr. GARAMENDI, Mr.

KELLY of Illinois, Mr. LAWLER, Ms.
LEE of Pennsylvania, Mr. LIEU, Ms.
LOFGREN, Mr. LYNCH, Ms. MATSUI,
Mrs. MCBATH, Ms. MCCLELLAN, Ms.
MCCOLLUM, Mr. MCGOVERN, Mr.
MEEKS, Mr. MENENDEZ, Ms. MENG,
Ms. MOORE of Wisconsin, Mr.
MORELLE, Mr. MRVAN, Mr. NADLER,
Mr. NEAL, Mr. NEGUSE, Mr. NOR-
CROSS, Mrs. TORRESof California, Ms.
OCASIO-CORTEZ, Mr. PALLONE, Ms.
PELOSI, Ms. PLASKETT, Mr. POCAN,
Mr. QUIGLEY, Mrs. RAMIREZ, Ms.
ROSS, Mr. RUTHERFORD, Mr. RYAN,
Mr. SCHNEIDER, Ms. SCHOLTEN, Mr.
DAVIDSCOTTof Georgia, Ms. SEWELL,
Mr. SHERMAN, Ms. SHERRILL, Mr.
SIMPSON, Ms. STRICKLAND, Mr.
SWALWELL, Mr. TAKANO, Mr.
THANEDAR, Mr. THOMPSON of Mis-
sissippi, Mr. THOMPSON of California,
Ms. TITUS, Ms. TLAIB, Ms. TOKUDA,
Mr. TONKO, Mr. TORRESof New York,
Mrs. TRAHAN, Mr. VEASEY, Ms.
VELA´ZQUEZ, Ms. WASSERMAN
SCHULTZ, Mrs. WATSON COLEMAN, Ms.
WILLIAMS of Georgia, Ms. WILSON of
Florida, and Mr. VALADAO):
H.R. 5309. A bill to posthumously award a
congressional gold medal to Constance
Baker Motley, in recognition of her enduring
contributions and service to the United
States; to the Committee on Financial Serv-
ices.
By Mr. EZELL:
H.R. 5310. A bill to amend section 423 of the
Robert T. Stafford Disaster Relief and Emer-
gency Assistance Act to provide for reim-
bursement of attorney’s fees under certain
circumstances, and for other purposes; to the
Committee on Transportation and Infra-
structure.
By Ms. FEDORCHAK:
H.R. 5311. A bill to amend the Communica-
tions Act of 1934 to preserve cable fran-
chising authority, and for other purposes; to
the Committee on Energy and Commerce.
By Mr. FINE (for himself, Mrs. LUNA,
and Mr. LAMALFA):
H.R. 5312. A bill to authorize civil actions
against judges who, and other government
entities that, release repeat offenders on
bail, and for other purposes; to the Com-
mittee on the Judiciary.
By Mr. FRY:
H.R. 5313. A bill to prohibit unfair or de-
ceptive acts or practices in the app market-
place, and for other purposes; to the Com-
mittee on Energy and Commerce.
By Mr. GROTHMAN (for himself, Mr.
GOSAR, Mr. SELF, and Mrs. BICE):
H.R. 5314. A bill to amend titles XVIII and
XIX of the Social Security Act to require a
skilled nursing facility to permit without re-
striction visitation by an individual des-
ignated by a resident of such facility under
the Medicare and Medicaid programs; to the
Committees on Ways and Means and Energy
and Commerce .
By Ms. HAGEMAN (for herself and Mr.
MOOREof Alabama):
H.R. 5315. A bill to prohibit the Federal
procurement of large language models not
developed in accordance with unbiased AI
principles, and for other purposes; to the
Committee on Oversight and Government
Reform.
By Mrs. HARSHBARGER (for herself
and Mr. CARTERof Georgia):
H.R. 5316. A bill to amend the Federal
Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act to ensure pa-

PAGE 24

custodial deposits of well capitalized insured
depository institutions are not considered to
be funds obtained by or through deposit bro-
kers, and for other purposes; to the Com-
mittee on Financial Services.
By Mr. HUDSON:
H.R. 5318. A bill to provide that the deploy-
ment of a small personal wireless service fa-
cility is not subject to requirements to pre-
pare certain environmental or historical
preservation reviews, and for other purposes;
to the Committees on Energy and Commerce
and Natural Resources .
By Ms. KAMLAGER-DOVE (for herself,
Mr. ESPAILLAT, Mr. JOHNSONof Geor-
gia, Mr. COHEN, Ms. NORTON, Ms.
CROCKETT, Ms. TLAIB, Ms. SEWELL,
Mr. CARSON, Mr. VARGAS, Ms. GARCIA
of Texas, Ms. SIMON, Mr. LIEU, Ms.
ANSARI, Ms. RIVAS, Ms. VELA´ZQUEZ,
Mr. GOLDMAN of New York, and Ms.
JACOBS):
H.R. 5319. A bill to prohibit the Centers for
Medicare and Medicaid Services and the De-
partment of Health and Human Services
from disclosing Medicaid data for law en-
forcement purposes related to immigration,
and for other purposes; to the Committees on
Financial Services and Oversight and Gov-
ernment Reform.
By Mr. KEATING (for himself and Mr.
WILSONof South Carolina):
H.R. 5320. A bill to strengthen United
States relations with certain countries of
Central and Southeast Europe and develop a
comprehensive strategy to strengthen de-
mocracy, rule of law, and civil society, and
for other purposes; to the Committee on For-
eign Affairs.
By Mr. LALOTA (for himself and Mr.
STANTON):
H.R. 5321. A bill to amend title 23, United
States Code, with respect to the special rule
for low emission and energy efficient vehi-
cles facilities, and for other purposes; to the
Committee on Transportation and Infra-
structure.
By Mr. LAWLER (for himself, Mr. VAN
DREW, Mr. KEAN, Mr. RYAN, Mr.
GOTTHEIMER, Mr. LATIMER, Ms.
MALLIOTAKIS, Ms. SHERRILL, Ms. POU,
Mr. HURD of Colorado, and Mr.
MILLS):
H.R. 5322. A bill to amend title 5, United
States Code, to designate September 11 Day
of Remembrance as a legal public holiday; to
the Committee on Oversight and Govern-
ment Reform.
By Mr. LIEU (for himself and Mr.
MEEKS):
H.R. 5323. A bill to enhance subnational di-
plomacy efforts within the Department of
State, and for other purposes; to the Com-
mittee on Foreign Affairs.
By Ms. MACE (for herself, Mr.
BURCHETT, and Mr. GOSAR):
H.R. 5324. A bill to establish the Unaccom-
panied Alien Child Anti-Trafficking Pro-
gram, and for other purposes; to the Com-
mittee on the Judiciary.
By Mr. MAGAZINER (for himself and
Mr. ESTES):
H.R. 5325. A bill to direct the Secretary of
Labor to promulgate a regulation allowing
administrators of certain pension plans to
voluntarily transfer unclaimed retirement
distributions to State unclaimed property
programs; to the Committees on Education
and Workforce and Ways and Means .
By Mrs. MCCLAIN DELANEY (for her-
self, Mr. BELL, Ms. BONAMICI, Mr.
C , Ms. C , Mr. C , Ms.

thorize the Administrator of the United
States Fire Administration to cancel or
delay certain courses and programs offered
by the Academy, and for other purposes; to
the Committee on Science, Space, and Tech-
nology.
By Ms. MCCLELLAN:
H.R. 5327. A bill to extend Federal recogni-
tion to the Nottoway Indian Tribe of Vir-
ginia, and for other purposes; to the Com-
mittee on Natural Resources.
By Ms. MCCOLLUM (for herself, Mr.
COLE, Ms. DAVIDSof Kansas, Ms. CHU,
Mr. GARAMENDI, Mr. HORSFORD, Mr.
KHANNA, Ms. LEGER FERNANDEZ, Ms.
OMAR, Mr. PETERS, Ms. STANSBURY,
Mr. VASQUEZ, and Ms. WILLIAMS of
Georgia):
H.R. 5328. A bill to amend the Indian Self-
Determination Act and the Indian Health
Care Improvement Act to provide advance
appropriations authority for certain ac-
counts of the Bureau of Indian Affairs and
Bureau of Indian Education of the Depart-
ment of the Interior and the Indian Health
Service of the Department of Health and
Human Services, and for other purposes; to
the Committees on Natural Resources, En-
ergy and Commerce, Education and Work-
force, and the Budget.
By Mr. MEEKS (for himself and Mr.
MACKENZIE):
H.R. 5329. A bill to authorize the establish-
ment of a Regional China Officer Program
Unit in the Department of State to monitor
and assess the global presence of the People’s
Republic of China and to help United States
diplomatic and consular posts abroad address
its malign influence and activities, and for
other purposes; to the Committee on Foreign
Affairs.
By Mrs. MILLER of Illinois (for her-
self, Mr. MOORE of Alabama, Mr.
BAIRD, Ms. MACE, Mr. GILL of Texas,
Mr. NEHLS, Mr. DONALDS, Mr. PERRY,
Mr. WEBER of Texas, Mr.
HARIDOPOLOS, Mr. MCGUIRE, Mr. NOR-
MAN, Mr. LOUDERMILK, Mr. CRANE,
Mr. WIED, and Mr. BURCHETT):
H.R. 5330. A bill to withhold certain trans-
portation program funds from States that
grant drivers licenses to illegal immigrants
or fail to share information about criminal
aliens with the Federal Government; to the
Committee on Transportation and Infra-
structure.
By Mr. MOORE of Alabama (for himself
and Mr. CARTERof Louisiana):
H.R. 5331. A bill to waive the statute of
limitations for cases against the government
related to the General Motors bailout that
were filed on or before July 9, 2015, and for
other purposes; to the Committee on the Ju-
diciary.
By Mr. OBERNOLTE (for himself and
Mr. GOTTHEIMER):
H.R. 5332. A bill to direct the Comptroller
General of the United States to conduct a
technology assessment focused on liquid-
cooling systems for artificial-intelligence
compute clusters and high-performance com-
puting facilities, require the development of
Federal Government-wide best-practice guid-
ance for Federal agencies, and for other pur-
poses; to the Committees on Energy and
Commerce and Science, Space, and Tech-
nology.
By Ms. OCASIO-CORTEZ (for herself,
Mr. ESPAILLAT, Ms. MENG, Ms.
VELA´ZQUEZ, Ms. CLARKEof New York,
Mr. T of New York, Mr. T ,

bris cleanup, or other related services after
the September 11 terrorist attacks an oppor-
tunity to adjust their status to that of law-
ful permanent residents, and for other pur-
poses; to the Committee on the Judiciary.
By Mr. PANETTA (for himself, Mr.
FITZPATRICK, Ms. GOODLANDER, Mr.
VALADAO, Mr. DAVIS of Illinois, Mr.
MULLIN, Ms. PINGREE, Mr. CARTER of
Louisiana, Ms. CRAIG, Mr. PAPPAS,
and Mr. NEGUSE):
H.R. 5334. A bill to amend the Internal Rev-
enue Code of 1986 to allow early childhood
educators to take the educator expense de-
duction, and for other purposes; to the Com-
mittee on Ways and Means.
By Ms. POU (for herself and Ms. SALA-
ZAR):
H.R. 5335. A bill to include Peru in the list
of foreign states whose nationals are eligible
for admission into the United States as E-1
and E-2 nonimmigrants if United States na-
tionals are treated similarly by the Govern-
ment of Peru; to the Committee on the Judi-
ciary.
By Mrs. RAMIREZ (for herself, Ms.
JAYAPAL, Mr. GARCI´A of Illinois, Ms.
TLAIB, Ms. ANSARI, Ms. MCCOLLUM,
Mr. THANEDAR, Ms. OMAR, Mr.
DELUZIO, and Mrs. WATSONCOLEMAN):
H.R. 5336. A bill to amend the Internal Rev-
enue Code of 1986 to equalize treatment of
capital gains and earned income; to the Com-
mittee on Ways and Means.
By Mr. STAUBER:
H.R. 5337. A bill to establish a national
motor carrier safety selection standard for
entities that contract with certain motor
carriers to transport goods, and for other
purposes; to the Committee on Transpor-
tation and Infrastructure.
By Ms. STEVENS (for herself, Mr.
DELUZIO, Ms. DEAN of Pennsylvania,
Mr. THANEDAR, Mr. NORCROSS, Ms.
SCHOLTEN, and Ms. TLAIB):
H.R. 5338. A bill to require information
about the motor vehicle plant in which vehi-
cles are assembled for Federal procurement,
and for other purposes; to the Committee on
Oversight and Government Reform.
By Mr. SUBRAMANYAM (for himself,
Mr. BEYER, Mr. WITTMAN, and Mr.
SCOTTof Virginia):
H.R. 5339. A bill to establish a presumption
of service connection for certain diseases as-
sociated with exposure to certain toxins at
the Pentagon Reservation during certain pe-
riod beginning on September 11, 2001; to the
Committee on Veterans’ Affairs.
By Mr. VARGAS (for himself, Mr.
LICCARDO, Mr. MENENDEZ, Ms. GARCIA
of Texas, Mrs. RAMIREZ, Mr.
KRISHNAMOORTHI, Mr. THOMPSON of
Mississippi, Ms. TLAIB, Mr. TAKANO,
Ms. BARRAGA´N, Ms. CLARKE of New
York, Ms. JACOBS, Ms. SIMON, Ms.
SCHAKOWSKY, Mr. COSTA, Ms. MCCOL-
LUM, Mr. LIEU, Ms. ANSARI, Mr.
GOMEZ, Mr. GOLDMAN of New York,
Mr. JOHNSON of Georgia, Mr. LATI-
MER, Ms. VELA´ZQUEZ, Ms. DELBENE,
Mr. EVANS of Pennsylvania, Ms.
RIVAS, Ms. OCASIO-CORTEZ, Ms. NOR-
TON, Mr. LARSON of Connecticut, Ms.
WILLIAMS of Georgia, and Ms.
KAMLAGER-DOVE):
H.R. 5340. A bill to prohibit the disclosure
of records by the Secretary of Housing and
Urban Development of individuals for the
purposes of immigration enforcement, and
for other purposes; to the Committees on Fi-

PAGE 25

for other purposes; to the Committee on Ag-
riculture.
By Mr. MAGAZINER:
H.J. Res. 120. A joint resolution proposing
an amendment to the Constitution of the
United States to limit the number of con-
secutive terms that a Member of Congress
may serve; to the Committee on the Judici-
ary.
By Ms. SCANLON (for herself, Mr.
LANDSMAN, Ms. NORTON, Mr. NOR-
CROSS, Mr. DELUZIO, Mr. MAGAZINER,
Mr. RILEY of New York, Mr.
KRISHNAMOORTHI, Mr. GOLDEN of
Maine, Ms. DELBENE, Mr. DOGGETT,
Ms. STRICKLAND, Mr. SHERMAN, Mrs.
RAMIREZ, Mrs. TRAHAN, Ms. TLAIB,
Mr. MOULTON, Ms. DEGETTE, Mr.
POCAN, Mr. GARAMENDI, Mr. CASE,
Mr. JOHNSON of Georgia, Mr. TONKO,
Ms. DEAN of Pennsylvania, Mr. FOS-
TER, Mr. PANETTA, Mr. LYNCH, Mr.
FROST, Mr. CLEAVER, Ms. SCHA-
KOWSKY, Ms. BALINT, and Mr.
QUIGLEY):
H.J. Res. 121. A joint resolution proposing
an amendment to the Constitution of the
United States relating to contributions and
expenditures intended to affect elections; to
the Committee on the Judiciary.
By Mr. CLEAVER (for himself and Mr.
GRAVES):
H. Res. 699. A resolution expressing support
for the designation of September 2025 as ‘‘Na-
tional Polycystic Kidney Disease Awareness
Month’’, and raising awareness and under-
standing of polycystic kidney disease; to the
Committee on Energy and Commerce.
By Mr. KENNEDY of Utah (for himself,
Mr. OWENS, Mr. MOORE of Utah, and
Ms. MALOY):
H. Res. 700. A resolution condemning the
assassination of Charlie Kirk and honoring
his life and legacy; to the Committee on
Oversight and Government Reform.
By Mr. LARSON of Connecticut (for
himself, Mr. NEAL, Mr. DOGGETT, Mr.
THOMPSONof California, Mr. DAVISof
Illinois, Ms. SA´NCHEZ, Ms. SEWELL,
Ms. DELBENE, Ms. CHU, Ms. MOOREof
Wisconsin, Mr. BOYLE of Pennsyl-
vania, Mr. BEYER, Mr. EVANS of
Pennsylvania, Mr. SCHNEIDER, Mr.
PANETTA, Mr. GOMEZ, Mr. HORSFORD,
Ms. PLASKETT, and Mr. SUOZZI):
H. Res. 701. A resolution of inquiry request-
ing the President of the United States to fur-
nish certain information to the House of
Representatives relating to the Department
of Government Efficiency’s access to and
usage of NUMIDENT and other personally
identifiable information in the possession of
the Social Security Administration; to the
Committee on Ways and Means.
By Mrs. MILLER of Illinois (for her-
self, Mr. BOST, and Mr. LAHOOD):
H. Res. 702. A resolution condemning in the
strongest possible terms the September 10,
2025, assassination of Charlie Kirk; to the
Committee on Oversight and Government
Reform.
By Mr. MOOLENAAR (for himself, Mr.
RYAN, and Mr. JAMES):
H. Res. 703. A resolution expressing support
for the designation of the week of September
11 through September 17, 2025, as ‘‘Patriot
Week’’; to the Committee on Oversight and
Government Reform.
By Mr. POCAN (for himself, Ms. SCHA-
KOWSKY, Mr. DOGGETT, Ms. OCASIO-
C , Ms. T , Mrs. W

mented; to the Committees on Ways and
Means and Energy and Commerce.
By Mr. THOMPSON of Pennsylvania
(for himself and Mr. PANETTA):
H. Res. 705. A resolution expressing support
for the designation of the week beginning on
September 14, 2025, as ‘‘Celebrate Commu-
nity Week’’; to the Committee on Oversight
and Government Reform.
f
CONSTITUTIONAL AUTHORITY
STATEMENT
Pursuant to clause 7 of rule XII of
the Rules of the House of Representa-
tives, the following statements are sub-
mitted regarding the specific powers
granted to Congress in the Constitu-
tion to enact the accompanying bill or
joint resolution.
By Ms. BONAMICI:
H.R. 5295.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I Section 8
By Ms. BONAMICI:
H.R. 5296.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I Section 8
By Ms. BONAMICI:
H.R. 5297.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I Section 8
By Ms. TLAIB:
H.R. 5298.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1, Section 1 of the Constitution.
By Mr. MAST:
H.R. 5299.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8 of the United States
Constitution.
By Mr. MAST:
H.R. 5300.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8 of the United States
Constitution.
By Mr. GRAVES:
H.R. 5301.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1, Section 8, clause 3 and 18
By Mr. MASSIE:
H.R. 5302.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8, Clause 18: To make all
Laws which shall be necessary and proper for
carrying into Execution the foregoing Pow-
ers, and all other Powers vested by this
Consitutuion in the Government of the
United States, or in any Department or Offi-
cer thereof.
By Mr. SMITH of New Jersey:
H.R. 5303.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8
By Mr. ADERHOLT:
H.R. 5304.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
The principal constitutional authority for
this legislation is clause 7 of section 9 of ar-

gress shall have the Power . . . to pay the
Debts and provide for the common Defence
and general Welfare of the United States
. . . .’’ Together, these specific constitu-
tional provisions establish the congressional
power of the purse, granting Congress the
authority to appropriate funds, to determine
their purpose, amount, and period of avail-
ability, and to set forth terms and conditions
governing their use.
By Mr. ARRINGTON:
H.R. 5305.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8
By Ms. BROWNLEY:
H.R. 5306.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8 and Amendment II
By Mr. CONAWAY:
H.R. 5307.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8 of the Constitution of
the United States.
By Mr. CONAWAY:
H.R. 5308.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8 of the Constitution of
the United States
By Ms. DELAURO:
H.R. 5309.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8, Clause 18
By Mr. EZELL:
H.R. 5310.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8, clause 3 (Commerce
Clause)
By Ms. FEDORCHAK:
H.R. 5311.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8, clause 3 (Commerce
Clause)
By Mr. FINE:
H.R. 5312.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article III, Section I, along with Article I,
Section 8, Clause 18.
By Mr. FRY:
H.R. 5313.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
section 8 of article I of the Constitution
By Mr. GROTHMAN:
H.R. 5314.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1, Section 8 of the United States
Constitution
By Ms. HAGEMAN:
H.R. 5315.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8
By Mrs. HARSHBARGER:
H.R. 5316.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I; Section 8 of the United States
Constitution
By Mr. HILL of Arkansas:
H.R. 5317.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:

PAGE 26

Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
This bill is introduced pursuant to the
powers granted to Congress under the Gen-
eral Welfare Clause (Art. 1 Sec. 8 Cl. 1), the
Commerce Clause (Art. 1 Sec. 8 Cl. 3), and
the Necessary and Proper Clause (Art. 1Sec.
8Cl. 18). Further, this statement of constitu-
tional authority is made for the sole purpose
of compliance with clause 7of Rule XII of the
Rules of the House of
By Mr. KEATING:
H.R. 5320.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1, Section 8
By Mr. LALOTA:
H.R. 5321.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1, Section 8, of the U.S. Constitu-
tion
By Mr. LAWLER:
H.R. 5322.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1, Section 8 of the United States
Constitution
By Mr. LIEU:
H.R. 5323.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8
By Ms. MACE:
H.R. 5324.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8 of the Constition.
By Mr. MAGAZINER:
H.R. 5325.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1, Section 8
By Mrs. MCCLAIN DELANEY:
H.R. 5326.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8, Clause 3
By Ms. MCCLELLAN:
H.R. 5327.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8 of the United States
Constitution
By Ms. MCCOLLUM:
H.R. 5328.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Pursuant to Article I Section 8 of the Con-
stitution
By Mr. MEEKS:
H.R. 5329.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8 of the Constitution
By Mrs. MILLER of Illinois:
H.R. 5330.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1, Section 8 of the Constitution
By Mr. MOORE of Alabama:
H.R. 5331.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section VIII
By Mr. OBERNOLTE:
H.R. 5332.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8
By Ms. OCASIO-CORTEZ:

Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1 Section 8
By Ms. POU:
H.R. 5335.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1, Section 8: To make all Laws
which shall be necessary and proper for car-
rying into Execution the foregoing Powers,
and all other Powers vested by this Constitu-
tion in the Government of the United States,
or in any Department or Officer thereof.
By Mrs. RAMIREZ:
H.R. 5336.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1, Section 8 of the Constitution of
the United States
By Mr. STAUBER:
H.R. 5337.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1, Seciton 8
By Ms. STEVENS:
H.R. 5338.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
This bill is enacted pursuant to the power
granted to Congress under Article I, Section
8, Clause 18 of the United States Constitu-
tion.
By Mr. SUBRAMANYAM:
H.R. 5339.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1, Section 8
By Mr. VARGAS:
H.R. 5340.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Clause 1 of Section 8 of Article 1 of the
Constitution.
By Mr. VINDMAN:
H.R. 5341.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8, Clause 18
By Mr. MAGAZINER:
H.J. Res. 120.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1, Section 8
By Ms. SCANLON:
H.J. Res. 121.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Section 8 of Article I of the Constitution
f
ADDITIONAL SPONSORS
Under clause 7 of rule XII, sponsors were
added to public bills and resolutions, as fol-
lows:
H.R. 507: Mr. CORREA.
H.R. 539: Ms. BYNUM.
H.R. 620: Mr. PFLUGER.
H.R. 807: Mr. VINDMAN.
H.R. 863: Mr. NEHLS.
H.R. 925: Ms. FEDORCHAK.
H.R. 944: Mr. DOGGETT.
H.R. 1078: Mr. SELF.
H.R. 1181: Mr. TAYLOR.
H.R. 1207: Mr. SUOZZI.
H.R. 1227: Mr. VINDMAN.
H.R. 1266: Ms. MCBRIDE.
H.R. 1269: Mr. DESAULNIER.
H.R. 1285: Mr. NUNNof Iowa.
H.R. 1330: Mr. CASARand Mr. GOMEZ.
H.R. 1340: Mr. BELL.

H.R. 1663: Mr. MACKENZIE.
H.R. 1667: Mr. TRAN, Mr. CORREA, and Ms.
PELOSI.
H.R. 1706: Mr. VINDMAN and Ms. CLARKE of
New York.
H.R. 1799: Mr. SOTO.
H.R. 1818: Ms. JOHNSONof Texas.
H.R. 1897: Mr. THOMPSONof Pennsylvania.
H.R. 1965: Mr. VANDREW.
H.R. 1993: Mr. PAPPAS, Mr. SCOTT of Vir-
ginia, Ms. MATSUI, Ms. HOYLEof Oregon, Mr.
TRAN, Ms. MCCLELLAN, Ms. WILSON of Flor-
ida, Ms. CROCKETT, Mrs. TRAHAN, and Mr.
THOMPSONof California.
H.R. 2048: Ms. BYNUMand Mr. WALBERG.
H.R. 2103: Mr. SORENSEN.
H.R. 2129: Mr. DOGGETT.
H.R. 2203: Mr. PANETTA.
H.R. 2220: Mr. JACKSONof Illinois.
H.R. 2332: Mr. CALVERT.
H.R. 2350: Mr. MOOREof North Carolina.
H.R. 2385: Mr. VINDMAN.
H.R. 2467: Mr. MOULTON.
H.R. 2477: Mr. FINSTADand Ms. MCBRIDE.
H.R. 2491: Mr. FLEISCHMANN.
H.R. 2493: Mr. VINDMAN.
H.R. 2497: Ms. TITUS.
H.R. 2548: Mr. MCCORMICK and Ms. MOORE
of Wisconsin.
H.R. 2598: Mrs. BEATTY.
H.R. 2599: Mr. LALOTA.
H.R. 2623: Mr. VANDREW.
H.R. 2767: Ms. DELBENE.
H.R. 2777: Mr. NUNNof Iowa.
H.R. 2814: Mr. VANDREWand Mr. MANN.
H.R. 2821: Mr. VINDMAN.
H.R. 2913: Mr. MAGAZINER.
H.R. 3112: Ms. NORTON.
H.R. 3184: Mr. DESAULNIER.
H.R. 3214: Ms. CASTORof Florida.
H.R. 3234: Mr. EZELL.
H.R. 3281: Mr. BELL.
H.R. 3526: Mr. BELL.
H.R. 3538: Mr. CARTERof Georgia.
H.R. 3565: Ms. WATERS.
H.R. 3644: Mr. KEATINGand Mr. BELL.
H.R. 3696: Mr. BELL.
H.R. 3726: Mr. VINDMAN.
H.R. 3740: Ms. PETTERSEN.
H.R. 3753: Mr. VANDREW.
H.R. 3931: Ms. MCBRIDE.
H.R. 3962: Mr. MOULTON.
H.R. 4002: Mr. WESTERMAN.
H.R. 4157: Mr. BELL.
H.R. 4167: Mr. CORREA.
H.R. 4176: Ms. CLARKEof New York.
H.R. 4398: Mr. KNOTT.
H.R. 4424: Mr. CRANK.
H.R. 4518: Mr. VINDMAN.
H.R. 4556: Mr. MAGAZINER.
H.R. 4667: Ms. DELBENE.
H.R. 4674: Mr. KENNEDYof New York.
H.R. 4717: Mr. LATIMER.
H.R. 4761: Mr. CARSON.
H.R. 4764: Mr. VINDMAN.
H.R. 4846: Mr. STEUBE.
H.R. 4849: Mr. SOTO, Ms. WATERS, Ms. JA-
COBS, and Mr. VICENTEGONZALEZof Texas.
H.R. 4860: Mr. VINDMAN.
H.R. 4862: Mr. EVANSof Pennsylvania.
H.R. 4890: Mr. MOULTON.
H.R. 4895: Mr. VINDMAN.
H.R. 4936: Mrs. KIM.
H.R. 4948: Ms. SIMON.
H.R. 4961: Mrs. FLETCHER.
H.R. 4977: Mr. FITZPATRICK.
H.R. 4992: Ms. BONAMICI.
H.R. 5002: Ms. BONAMICI.
H.R. 5030: Mr. VINDMAN.
H.R. 5031: Mr. VINDMAN.
H.R. 5080: Mr. CRENSHAW, Mr. DONALDS, Mr.

PAGE 27

H.R. 5140: Mr. DOWNING.
H.R. 5226: Mr. GARCI´Aof Illinois.
H.R. 5228: Mr. COHENand Ms. WATERS.
H.R. 5265: Mr. LAWLER.
H.R. 5268: Mr. GILLof Texas.
H.R. 5269: Ms. LOFGREN.
H. J. Res. 28: Mr. BILIRAKIS.
H. J. Res. 54: Mr. CARSON.
H. J. Res. 118: Mr. CLINE.
H. Con. Res. 37: Mr. POCANand Mrs. HAYES.
H. Res. 317: Mr. RASKIN.
H. Res. 459: Mr. WILSONof South Carolina.
H. Res. 594: Mr. CLINE.
H. Res. 629: Mr. POCAN.
H. Res. 694: Mr. POCAN.
H. Res. 695: Mr. FRY, Mr. HAMADEH of Ari-
zona, Mr. TONY GONZALES of Texas, Mr.
MASSIE, Mr. LOUDERMILK, Mr. BEGICH, Mr.
MCCLINTOCK, Mr. MESSMER, Mr. STAUBER,
Mr. FITZGERALD, Mr. CALVERT, Mr. EZELL,
Mr. MURPHY, Mrs. LUNA, Mr. HIGGINSof Lou-

isiana, Mr. SMITH of New Jersey, Mr.
PFLUGER, Mr. SESSIONS, Mr. LANGWORTHY,
Mr. PATRONIS, Mr. RULLI, Mrs.
HARSHBARGER, Mr. SMITH of Nebraska, Mr.
ROSE, Mr. DESJARLAIS, Mr. YAKYM, Mr.
STEIL, Mr. MEUSER, Mr. SCOTT FRANKLIN of
Florida, Mrs. BIGGS of South Carolina, Mr.
MCCORMICK, Mrs. FISCHBACH, and Mr. THOMP-
SONof Pennsylvania.
H. Res. 697: Mr. PAPPAS.
H. Res. 698: Mr. GOLDMANof New York and
Mr. KENNEDYof New York.
f
DELETIONS OF SPONSORS FROM
PUBLIC BILLS AND RESOLUTIONS
Under clause 7 of rule XII, sponsors
were deleted from public bills and reso-
lutions, as follows:

H.R. 4312: Mr. MOSKOWITZ.
f
DISCHARGE PETITIONS—
ADDITIONS AND WITHDRAWALS
The following Members added their
names to the following discharge peti-
tions:
Petition 6 by Mr. GOLDEN of Maine on
House Resolution 432: Mr. Swalwell and Mr.
Walkinshaw.
Petition 8 by Mr. MEEKS on House Resolu-
tion 518: Mr. Swalwell, Mr. Walkinshaw, and
Mr. Bacon.
Petition 9 by Mr. MASSIE on House Reso-
lution 581: Mr. Swalwell and Mr.
Walkinshaw.

PAGE 28

EPLURIBUS UNUM Con
United States
of America PROCEEDINGS
Vol. 171 WASHING
The Senate met at 10 a.m. and was
called to order by the Honorable
MARKWAYNE MULLIN, a Senator from
the State of Oklahoma.
f
PRAYER
The Chaplain, Dr. Barry C. Black, of-
fered the following prayer:
Let us pray.
Gracious God, high and lifted up, hal-
lowed be Your Name. Lord, as we ob-
serve the 24th anniversary of 9/11, we
continue to thank You for Your sus-
taining grace. We give thanks at the
remembrance of Your holy Name, for
You are our hope for the years to come.
Today, as flags around the Nation fly
at half-staff, we mourn the assassina-
tion of Charlie Kirk. We ask that You
would comfort his family and loved
ones and all who appreciated Charlie’s
love of country. Use our lawmakers
today to make our Nation and world
better. Lord, teach all of us to number
our days, that we may have hearts of
wisdom.
We pray in Your merciful Name.
Amen.
f
PLEDGE OF ALLEGIANCE
The Presiding Officer led the Pledge
of Allegiance, as follows:
I pledge allegiance to the Flag of the
United States of America, and to the Repub-
lic for which it stands, one nation under God,
indivisible, with liberty and justice for all.
f
APPOINTMENT OF ACTING
PRESIDENT PRO TEMPORE
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will please read a communication
to the Senate from the President pro
tempore (Mr. GRASSLEY).
The assistant bill clerk read the fol-
lowing letter:
U.S. SENATE,
PRESIDENTPROTEMPORE,
Washington, DC, September 11, 2025.
To the Senate:
Under the provisions of rule I, paragraph 3,
of the Standing Rules of the Senate, I hereby
appoint the Honorable MARKWAYNE MULLIN,

ngressional
119t
S AND DEBATES OF THE
GTON, THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER
Senate
a Senator from the State of Oklahoma, to
perform the duties of the Chair.
CHUCKGRASSLEY,
President pro tempore.
Mr. MULLIN thereupon assumed the
Chair as Acting President pro tempore.
f
RESERVATION OF LEADER TIME
The ACTING PRESIDENT pro tem-
pore. Under the previous order, the
leadership time is reserved.
f
CONCLUSION OF MORNING
BUSINESS
The ACTING PRESIDENT pro tem-
pore. Morning business is closed.
f
LEGISLATIVE SESSION
NATIONAL DEFENSE AUTHORIZA-
TION ACT FOR FISCAL YEAR
2026—Resumed
The ACTING PRESIDENT pro tem-
pore. Under the previous order, the
Senate will resume consideration of S.
2296, which the clerk will report.
The assistant bill clerk read as fol-
lows:
A bill (S. 2296) to authorize appropriations
for fiscal year 2026 for military activities of
the Department of Defense, for military con-
struction, and for defense activities of the
Department of Energy, to prescribe military
personnel Strengths for such fiscal year, and
for other purposes.
Pending:
Wicker/Reed Amendment Modified No.
3748, in the nature of a substitute.
Wicker (for Ernst) Amendment No. 3427 (to
Amendment No. 3748), to require the Comp-
troller General of the United States to con-
duct a study on casualty assistance and
long-term care programs.
Thune Amendment No. 3863 (to Amend-
ment No. 3427), relating to the enactment
date.
Thune Amendment No. 3864 (to the lan-
guage proposed to be stricken by Amend-
ment No. 3748), relating to the enactment
date.
Thune Amendment No. 3865 (to Amend-
ment No. 3864), relating to the enactment
date.

l Record
th
CONGRESS, FIRST SESSION
R 11, 2025 No. 149
Motion to recommit the bill to the Com-
mittee on Armed Services, with instructions,
Thune Amendment No. 3866, relating to the
enactment date.
Thune Amendment No. 3867 (to (the in-
structions) Amendment No. 3866), relating to
the enactment date.
Thune Amendment No. 3868 (to Amend-
ment No. 3867), relating to the enactment
date.
RECOGNITIONOFTHEMAJORITYLEADER
The ACTING PRESIDENT pro tem-
pore. The majority leader is recog-
nized.
24THANNIVERSARYOFTHESEPTEMBER11, 2001,
ATTACKS
Mr. THUNE. Mr. President, 24 years
ago, on a bright September day whose
blue sky I still remember, terrorists hi-
jacked four planes and flew three of
them into the Twin Towers in New
York City and into the Pentagon. The
fourth plane, possibly headed for this
building, was brought down in a field in
Pennsylvania after heroic passengers
rose up to stop the terrorists.
No one who lived through that day
will ever forget the shock, the terror,
and the tremendous wave of resolve.
We saw the worst of which humanity is
capable in the attacks, but we saw the
very best of America in the after-
math—the heroic passengers on Flight
93; the firemen who walked up the
stairs, into the towers, as civilians
were running down; the ordinary Amer-
icans who rushed to help; the lines to
donate blood; the vast donations
raised; the renewed sense of patriotism
and national unity.
Twenty-four years on, most of the
visible scars of the attacks are gone.
The Pentagon and One World Trade
Center stand proudly. But my thoughts
and prayers on this anniversary remain
with those who still bear the invisible
scars of that day—with them and with
all those in the years since who have
stood between our country and terror.
RULESCHANGE
Mr. President, later today, the Sen-
ate will move forward on amending the

PAGE 29

Senate rules to restore the Senate
precedent of the en bloc confirmation
of Presidential nominees.
I have spent plenty of time here on
the floor explaining why we are having
to take this step. The longtime prac-
tice of the Senate was expeditious con-
firmation of Presidential nominations,
often in blocks, using the procedural
mechanism of voice vote or unanimous
consent. That didn’t mean
rubberstamping every nominee, but it
did mean that the Senate allowed the
President to assemble his team so that
he could carry out the job for which he
was elected.
But over the years, Democrats have
steadily eroded that bipartisan tradi-
tion—first during President George W.
Bush’s administration, then dramati-
cally during the first Trump adminis-
tration, and finally to where we are
today. And where we are today is be-
yond erosion. Democrats have flat-out
broken the Senate confirmation proc-
ess.
We are more than 7 months into
President Trump’s current term, and
the Senate has yet to confirm one sin-
gle civilian nominee by unanimous
consent or voice vote. To put that into
perspective, by this point in his admin-
istration, President Biden had had 76
civilian nominees confirmed by voice
vote—76. President Trump has not had
one—the first President on record to be
in this position—the first President on
record.
Democrats have dragged out the
process on every single civilian nomi-
nee, including on nominees they ended
up supporting on final passage. Sixty-
two out of the one hundred thirty-nine
nominees we have confirmed have been
confirmed with Democrat support.
Democrats have refused to voice-vote
any of them. Why? Petty partisan-
ship—nothing more, nothing less, noth-
ing else.
The Democrat leader, of course,
would claim that it is because we are
dealing with historically bad nominees,
but I won’t waste time today debunk-
ing that. I don’t need to. It has been
debunked for me by the fact that close
to half of President Trump’s nominees
have received Democrat support on
final passage and by the scores of
Trump nominees who have emerged
from committee with bipartisan sup-
port.
No, this isn’t about historically bad
nominees; this is about petty partisan-
ship. Democrats and their political
base cannot deal with the fact that the
American people elected President
Trump, and so they are dragging out
every confirmation in retaliation.
It would be fine if this Democrat
temper tantrum didn’t affect anyone
else, but Democrats’ historic obstruc-
tion is having serious consequences. In

Advice and consent on Presidential
nominations is part of our job as Sen-
ators, but it is not the only part of our
job. The Senate is first and foremost a
legislative body, but that primary role
is getting crowded out by the need to
be constantly considering nominations.
Now, when I became majority leader,
I made it clear that one of my prior-
ities was to get the Senate functioning
again, and the Senate can’t function ef-
fectively as a legislative body with the
confirmation process in the state that
it is in right now. So today, the Senate
will move forward on amending the
rules to restore the longstanding prece-
dent of confirming Presidential nomi-
nees expeditiously.
It would have been nice not to have
to go through this process. I think
there are a lot of Democrats who are
aware that they have created an unten-
able situation, and it would have been
nice to see them acknowledge that and
move to return to longtime Senate
precedent. But despite extended efforts
to engage Democrats, we still haven’t
gotten to a solution to the problem
that they created, and time is about to
run out. One way or the other, we are
going to fix this today—fix it and re-
store the longtime Senate precedent of
expeditious confirmation and the Sen-
ate’s role as first and foremost a legis-
lative body. It is not too late for my
Democrat colleagues to join us. I invite
them to do so.
f
EXECUTIVE SESSION
EXECUTIVE CALENDAR
Mr. THUNE. Mr. President, I move to
proceed to executive session to con-
sider Calendar No. 366.
The ACTING PRESIDENT pro tem-
pore. The question is on agreeing to
the motion.
The motion was agreed to.
The ACTING PRESIDENT pro tem-
pore. The clerk will report the nomina-
tion.
The senior assistant legislative clerk
read the nomination of Stephen Miran,
of New York, to be a Member of the
Board of Governors of the Federal Re-
serve System for the unexpired term of
fourteen years from February 1, 2012.
CLOTUREMOTION
Mr. THUNE. Mr. President, I send a
cloture motion to the desk.
The ACTING PRESIDENT pro tem-
pore. The cloture motion having been
presented under rule XXII, the Chair
directs the clerk to read the motion.
The senior assistant legislative clerk
read as follows:
CLOTUREMOTION
We, the undersigned Senators, in accord-
ance with the provisions of rule XXII of the

John Thune, Pete Ricketts, John R. Cur-
tis, Kevin Cramer, Mike Rounds, Ber-
nie Moreno, Eric Schmitt, James E.
Risch, David McCormick, Chuck Grass-
ley, Joni Ernst, Cynthia M. Lummis,
Ted Budd, Jim Banks, John Boozman,
Tim Scott of South Carolina, John
Barrasso.
Mr. THUNE. Mr. President, I yield
the floor.
I suggest the absence of a quorum.
The ACTING PRESIDENT pro tem-
pore. The clerk will call the roll.
The assistant bill clerk proceeded to
call the roll.
Mr. SCHUMER. Mr. President, I ask
unanimous consent that the order for
the quorum call be rescinded.
The ACTING PRESIDENT pro tem-
pore. Without objection, it is so or-
dered.
RECOGNITIONOFTHEMINORITYLEADER
The Democratic leader is recognized.
24THANNIVERSARYOFTHESEPTEMBER11, 2001,
ATTACKS
Mr. SCHUMER. Mr. President, 24
years ago today, September 11, 2001,
started off like any other day in New
York City. The weather was beautiful.
People were out and about. It was pri-
mary day, and people were lining up to
vote. Then, in an instant, everything
changed.
At 8:46 a.m., Flight 11 crashed into
the North Tower of the World Trade
Center. There was chaos and confusion.
Seventeen minutes later, flight 175
crashed into the South Tower. The re-
ality of what was happening became
clear: This wasn’t a horrific accident.
America was under attack. New York
City was Ground Zero.
The course of American history was
changed forever. Twenty-four years
later, not a day has passed that I
haven’t thought about the people we
lost that day, including three friends of
mine: a guy I played basketball with in
high school, a businessman who helped
me on the way up, a firefighter I did
blood drives with around the city. May
their memories be a blessing.
I still think about the scenes when I
arrived at Ground Zero in the after-
math of the attack the day after. The
putrid smell of dead, burned flesh was
in the air. I remember the rows upon
rows of people holding up makeshift
signs with photos of their missing
loved ones because no one knew who
was alive and who wasn’t: Have you
seen my brother Bill? Have you seen
my daughter Mary? The anguish on
their faces stays in my mind to this
day. They are the kind of heart-
wrenching images that will stay with
me for a lifetime.
While 9/11 was America’s darkest
hour, I also saw New Yorkers in our
finest moments. There were countless
acts of kindness by strangers to help

PAGE 30

day, I wear this flag on my lapel. Every
time I look at it, I think of those who
were lost. It is a small but constant re-
minder of our sacred promise: Never,
never forget.
‘‘Never forget’’ especially means hon-
oring the countless brave first respond-
ers who ran toward danger, not away
from it, to save lives. In our darkest
hour, these heroes—police officers, fire-
fighters, EMTs, so many others—risked
their lives—construction workers—to
rescue others. Many of the finest first
responders became sick because of the
toxins in the air. Many were diagnosed
with rare, deadly cancers and diseases,
and many—far too many—succumbed
to their illnesses, including my great
friend Ray Pfeifer. May he rest in
peace.
That is why I have fought to secure
nearly $1.71 billion for the World Trade
Center Health Program to help sick
first responders get the care they need.
Sadly—sadly—it has been such a strug-
gle to get that money.
It has been a difficult few months for
many 9/11 first responders and others
now sick due to exposures at Ground
Zero. Cuts to this program are wrong,
immoral, and I have fought in a bipar-
tisan way, with fellow Republicans and
Democrats, to oppose them.
I have also fiercely opposed the firing
of thousands of HHS staffers who sup-
port the World Trade Center Health
Program. The heroes who rushed to
their towers, the families who have
lost loved ones and have sick loved
ones don’t deserve this kind of chaos,
uncertainty, and uncaringness. They
don’t deserve to have their treatment
put on hold because of a backlog or be-
cause of disorganization.
I repeat. This is not a Democratic or
Republican issue. Taking care of 9/11
families is an American issue to its
core.
One of the best ways to never forget
is ensuring the World Center Trade
Center Health Program is fully funded,
is fully staffed, and is fully oper-
ational.
So may God bless—God bless—the
memories of those who perished on 9/11.
May God bless all of our first respond-
ers and families.
And, now, in memory of the 2,977 peo-
ple killed on September 11, in honor of
their families, and in honor of all those
who have sacrificed since then to keep
our country safe, I ask unanimous con-
sent that the Senate observe a minute
of silence in honor of those who died on
9/11.
The ACTING PRESIDING pro tem-
pore. Without objection, it is so or-
dered.
The Senate will observe a moment of
silence.
(Moment of silence.)
May we never, never forget the

Senate pray for Charlie’s family—his
wife, his kids. The loss they feel today
is incomprehensible.
We thank all of the first responders
who were on the scene yesterday, who
continue to work until the murderer is
brought to justice.
We also pray for all those hurt yes-
terday in another act of senseless gun
violence in Evergreen High School in
Colorado, where two students were
critically injured at the hands of a lone
gunman. We pray for their recovery.
These tragedies—these tragedies—are
a constant reminder to all of us of the
immense destruction of gun violence
and of inaction.
Now, no matter your political views,
yesterday’s attack was heinous, cow-
ardly and ought to make everyone sick
to their stomachs. Political violence is
the enemy of democracy, and we have
an obligation on all sides to fight it at
every turn. We must condemn it when-
ever it arises, wherever it arises, in-
cluding this heinous murder of Charlie
Kirk, but also the politically moti-
vated shootings of House Members at a
baseball practice and the politically
motivated murders of Melissa Hortman
and her husband earlier this year in
Minnesota, as well as the attacks on
former Speaker PELOSI and her hus-
band, and the murder of business ex-
ecutives, and the storming of the U.S.
Capitol, and so many other incidents of
politically motivated barbarity.
These attacks are attacks on all of
us—all of us—all of America. If we fail
to quell the fires of political violence,
regardless of where it comes from, it
will become the norm. There should be
no finger-pointing because this is an
attack on our democracy itself. And if
we fail to quell those fires, our democ-
racy will be doomed.
We can disagree with our ideas but
not with weapons and bloodshed and
killing.
So we mourn the murder of Charlie
Kirk and pray for his family. We pray
for those injured in Colorado. And we
must work together to bring political
violence and the scourge of gun vio-
lence to a quick end.
GOVERNMENTFUNDING
Mr. President, let me finally say a
brief word on appropriations, after
those two sad, sad subjects. I want to
say a brief word on keeping the govern-
ment open in a bipartisan way.
I just met with House and Senate
Democratic leadership to talk about
appropriations. House and Senate
Democrats are in total agreement:
What the Republicans are proposing is
not good enough for the American peo-
ple and not good enough to get our
votes.
The American people are hurting
with high costs, particularly

fronts. People are losing jobs. People
are seeing costs go through the roof.
People are losing healthcare. People
are going to die because of these cuts.
So Democrats’ position is clear, and
we are united: Republicans have to
come to meet with us in a true bipar-
tisan negotiation to satisfy the Amer-
ican people’s needs on healthcare and
lower people’s costs. Without that,
they won’t get our votes, plain and
simple.
INFLATION
Mr. President, on inflation, this
morning, the Department of Labor re-
ported inflation in August accelerated
2.9 percent from a year earlier. That is
the highest year-to-year number so far
this year.
Inflation is getting worse—so much
for Donald Trump’s promise to lower
costs ‘‘on day one.’’
We are well past the point where you
can’t make it through the day without
seeing more evidence that Trump’s tar-
iffs are hurting our economy.
Donald Trump, a billionaire, can post
on social media there is no inflation to
his heart’s delight, but Americans
know he is lying every time they pay
more for coffee and beef and rent. And
it is all self-inflicted because of these
tariffs.
Soon, Senate Democrats will force
action on legislation stopping these de-
structive tariffs because we need to
protect people back home. I urge our
Republican colleagues to join us when
that time comes.
I yield the floor.
I suggest the absence of a quorum.
The ACTING PRESIDENT pro tem-
pore. The clerk will call the roll.
The senior assistant legislative clerk
proceeded to call the roll.
Mr. BARRASSO. Mr. President, I ask
unanimous consent that the order for
the quorum call be rescinded.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
CHARLIEKIRKSHOOTING
Mr. BARRASSO. Mr. President, I
would like to begin today by address-
ing the tragic event that occurred yes-
terday.
Thirteen years ago, an organization
called Turning Point USA was
launched to fight back against liberal
indoctrination that was occurring on
college campuses. It began, as you
know, as a little organization. It quick-
ly grew into a dominant force of con-
servatism on college campuses. It be-
came a national movement.
At the center of this was an 18-year-
old young patriot named Charlie Kirk.
From students and parents, all the way
to President Trump, they all admired
Charlie. He was a college dropout who
brought debate and dialogue back to
our country. For 13 years, Charlie did

PAGE 31

Well, the name of yesterday’s event
was ‘‘Prove Me Wrong.’’ It was a fitting
testimony to Charlie’s fearlessness.
For those political convictions, for
that personal courage, Charlie became
the latest target of political violence.
Many of us knew Charlie personally,
as did I. The Presiding Officer and I
were with him in October—October 31.
We were with him in Phoenix, AZ, dur-
ing a campaign event with President
Trump. He became a beacon for a bet-
ter, brighter America. Charlie re-
minded all of us that civil debate
makes our arguments sharper, and it
makes our society better.
We must live as Charlie lived during
his all-too-brief life: with courage and
with conviction. God bless Charlie
Kirk. May God bless his family, and
may he rest in peace.
NOMINATIONS
Mr. President, on a separate matter,
Senate Republicans today are prepared
to break the Democrat nomination
blockade. Senate Republicans are de-
termined to overcome Democrats’ con-
firmation obstruction. Senate Repub-
licans are prepared to restore the Sen-
ate to the way it is supposed to work.
For two centuries, most Presidential
nominees have sailed through this
Chamber by voice vote and by unani-
mous consent. That was the gold stand-
ard for ‘‘advise and consent.’’ Senator
SCHUMERand the Democrats abandoned
it. Instead of deliberation, Senate
Democrats chose unprecedented delay.
That ends now.
This year, Democrats have forced the
Senate to waste 210 hours of pointless
procedural theatrics. That is 210 hours
not used for debating legislation—leg-
islation to fight crime, to secure the
border, to unleash American energy,
and to grow the economy. Modern
Presidents have over 1,000 positions re-
quiring Senate confirmation, and as a
result, only 12 percent of President
Trump’s team is today on the job. And
it is because of obstruction; it is be-
cause of Democrat delays. They have
delayed positions vital to America’s
safety, vital to our prosperity, and
vital to our diplomacy around the
world.
These remain empty. Let me name a
few. The Director of the National
Counterintelligence and Security Cen-
ter—that is the person responsible for
protecting us from foreign spies—
empty; the Under Secretary for Nu-
clear Security at the Energy Depart-
ment, the person responsible for safe-
guarding our Nation’s nuclear weapons:
empty; Ambassadors to key NATO al-
lies as war rages in Europe: empty; the
inspector general at the Central Intel-
ligence Agency: empty; the Deputy
Trade Representative, as America ne-
gotiates historic trade deals, remains

irrefutable, inescapable facts are that
this Democrat obstruction makes
America less safe. That is where we are
today.
Let me point out what makes Demo-
crat obstruction even more disgraceful.
It destroys their own precedent. In
May of 2001, 32 nominees from Presi-
dent George W. Bush were confirmed in
a single group. A few months later, 55
more were confirmed in the same way.
In February of 2010, for President
Barack Obama, 77 nominees were con-
firmed exactly the same way. In 2017,
with President Trump then in the of-
fice, 65 nominees were confirmed on a
single day.
So what have we seen? Republican
Presidents, Democrat Presidents, all
with nominees confirmed in the same
way. The Senate approved those nomi-
nees then as a long-established tradi-
tion in the Senate. That is the way the
confirmation process is supposed to
work. Just 4 years ago, with President
Biden in the White House, 36 nominees
were confirmed the exact same way.
I want to just get back to 4 years
ago: 36 nominees confirmed for Presi-
dent Biden. Who personally came to
this Senate floor that day to ask for
that unanimous consent? Well, it was
the current minority leader, CHUCK
SCHUMER. He is the one who made the
motion. He is the one who sought unan-
imous consent. And, of course, we
agreed, and it was done that way.
All these groups of nominees, from
President Bush to President Biden,
were confirmed by unanimous consent.
But now that Donald Trump is Presi-
dent again, Senator SCHUMER calls the
process, in his words, ‘‘beyond the
pale’’—of doing what he just asked to
be done when President Biden was in
the White House. When the minority
leader claims this week Republicans
are breaking the Senate norms, he is
trying to rewrite history. Who is he
trying to fool? For the past 25 years,
the Senate has confirmed routine
nominees together in groups. It has
been done for Republican Presidents,
Democrat Presidents; but not any-
more—not when President Trump was
elected just this past year. Democrats
are now trying to deny President
Trump the team he needs in place and
on the job to govern this Nation. But
the American people elected President
Trump to lead, not to watch his admin-
istration be held hostage by partisan
politics.
Today, Senate Republicans are going
to return to the very practice that
Democrats endorsed and followed until
President Trump got elected. Let me
remind the colleagues of that practice
so they don’t say: Well, they are going
to speed things along. Every com-
mittee hearing and markup will still

tiny of each and every nominee is
going to continue.
What comes to the end is what is
Senator SCHUMER’s reign of procedural
terror. The Schumer confirmation
shutdown ends today. And to my
Democratic colleagues, let me say, if
you disagree with our effort to get the
Senate working again, it is up to you
to explain to the American people why
you have chosen to paralyze the Sen-
ate. You need to explain why you chose
to stop doing the work that you were
elected to do. Republicans are getting
this Senate back to work on behalf of
the American people, and beginning
next week, the backlog of President
Trump’s nominees will be confirmed,
and they will be put to work to get
America back on track.
WAIVINGQUORUMCALL
Mr. President, I ask unanimous con-
sent to waive the mandatory quorum
call with respect to Executive Calendar
No. 1, S. Res. 377.
The ACTING PRESIDENT pro tem-
pore. Without objection, it is so or-
dered.
Mr. BARRASSO. I suggest the ab-
sence of a quorum.
The ACTING PRESIDENT pro tem-
pore. The clerk will call the roll.
The senior assistant legislative clerk
proceeded to call the roll.
Mr. MARSHALL. Mr. President, I
ask unanimous consent that the order
for the quorum call be rescinded.
The PRESIDING OFFICER (Mr.
SHEEHY). Without objection, it is so or-
dered.
f
CLOTURE MOTION
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Pursuant
to rule XXII, the Chair lays before the
Senate the pending cloture motion,
which the clerk will state.
The legislative clerk read as follows:
CLOTUREMOTION
We, the undersigned Senators, in ac-
cordance with the provisions of rule
XXII of the Standing Rules of the Sen-
ate, do hereby move to bring to a close
debate on Calendar No. 1, S. Res. 377,
an executive resolution authorizing the
en bloc consideration in Executive Ses-
sion of certain nominations on the Ex-
ecutive Calendar.
John Thune, Bernie Moreno, John Ken-
nedy, Katie Boyd Britt, John Cornyn,
John Barrasso, Shelley Moore Capito,
Tim Sheehy, Tom Cotton, Josh
Hawley, Mike Rounds, Jon A. Husted,
James E. Risch, Ted Budd, Markwayne
Mullin, Kevin Cramer, Mike Lee.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. By unan-
imous consent, the mandatory quorum
call has been waived.
The question is, Is it the sense of the
Senate that debate on S. Res. 377, an
executive resolution authorizing the en

PAGE 32

The legislative clerk called the roll.
Mr. DURBIN. I announce that the
Senator from New Hampshire (Ms. HAS-
SAN) is necessarily absent.
The yeas and nays resulted—yeas 52,
nays 47, as follows:
[Rollcall Vote No. 513 Ex.]
YEAS—52
Banks Graham Moreno
Barrasso Grassley Mullin
Blackburn Hagerty Murkowski
Boozman Hawley Paul
Britt Hoeven Ricketts
Budd Husted Risch
Capito Hyde-Smith Rounds
Cassidy Johnson Schmitt
Collins Justice
Scott (FL)
Cornyn Kennedy
Scott (SC)
Cotton Lankford
Cramer Lee Sheehy
Crapo Lummis Sullivan
Cruz Marshall Tillis
Curtis McConnell Tuberville
Daines McCormick Wicker
Ernst Moody Young
Fischer Moran
NAYS—47
Alsobrooks Hirono Sanders
Baldwin Kaine Schatz
Bennet Kelly Schiff
Blumenthal Kim Schumer
Blunt Rochester King Shaheen
Booker Klobuchar Slotkin
Cantwell Luja´n Smith
Coons Markey Thune
Cortez Masto Merkley
Van Hollen
Duckworth Murphy
Warner
Durbin Murray
Fetterman Ossoff Warnock
Gallego Padilla Warren
Gillibrand Peters Welch
Heinrich Reed Whitehouse
Hickenlooper Rosen Wyden
NOT VOTING—1
Hassan
(Mr. HAGERTY assumed the Chair.)
(Mr. TILLIS assumed the Chair.)
(Mr. HAGERTY assumed the Chair.)
(Mr. TILLIS assumed the Chair.)
The PRESIDING OFFICER (Mr.
BUDD). On this vote, the yeas are 52,
the nays are 47.
Three-fifths of the Senators duly cho-
sen and sworn not having voted in the
affirmative, the motion is not agreed
to.
The motion was rejected.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The ma-
jority leader.
MOTIONTORECONSIDER
Mr. THUNE. Mr. President, I move to
reconsider the vote.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
question is on agreeing to the motion
to reconsider.
The Senator from Oklahoma.
Mr. LANKFORD. Mr. President, I ask
consent for myself and Senator SCHATZ
to speak for up to 6 minutes, equally
divided time.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
The Senator from Oklahoma.
Mr. LANKFORD. I would ask for Sen-
ator SCHATZ and I to speak for up to 10
minutes of time, equally divided.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without

body. Quite frankly, it is the same
number that we have every time when
it is the first term for a new President
to be able to work its way through the
body.
But this time is different. And it is
not just accidentally different; it has
been intentionally different.
I understand my Democratic col-
leagues have problems politically with
President Trump. I get that. Respect-
fully, we have differences of opinion on
that. But this time it has been dif-
ferent. Every single nominee has been
blocked. Every single nominee has re-
quired a vote for a motion to proceed,
2 hours of debate, and another vote.
The current status where we are
right now to just do the nominees who
are backlogged, where we currently sit
right now, will take about 900 hours of
floor time to be able to just do those.
That doesn’t include the ones who are
coming next for the next nominations.
We are stuck.
If every single one of them requires
this kind of time, the Senate is no
longer functioning. So what we had
proposed was a pretty straightforward
proposal; that is, that we actually can
move nominees in small batches—let’s
say 15—once they come out of com-
mittee. So they have had vetting in
committee; they had had a hearing in
committee; they have passed out of
committee; they are now coming to the
floor. In the past, those individuals
were then passed by what is called en
bloc or by voice vote or unanimous
consent.
It is very common to be en bloc. In
fact, during President Biden’s time,
there were 277 nominees who moved en
bloc. Do you know why? Because Re-
publicans allowed them to be able to
move en bloc.
Do you know what is interesting?
During President Trump’s first term,
more than 500 nominees moved en bloc.
Do you know why? Because Democrats
allowed them to move en bloc because
this was normal to be able to do. But
now we are in a new political age where
nothing seems to be normal.
So we proposed a very simple thing;
that this would be helpful to do in
what is called a standing rule. It would
take 60 votes to be able to move this,
and we would have a standing rule to
say here is how this could be done. Up
to 15 out of a committee would come to
the floor en bloc. We would have a sin-
gle vote to be able to pass those 15,
very similar to how it has been done in
the past. It is just structured that way.
This was an idea that percolated
around for a while and then began to
grow. Then we had multiple of our
Democratic Senators who came on
board and said that that is a reason-
able proposal. In fact, it is similar to

to say let’s vote on it. We have a super-
majority. We have plenty of folks who
are willing to be able to step up and
say that is a reasonable thing to be
able to do. The problem is, it takes
consent to actually bring it to the
floor. It is just a simple issue of do we
have the ability to be able to vote on
this today? If we don’t, we are stuck.
Now, it only takes 60. We definitely
have 60 votes in this body today to be
able to pass it. What we don’t have is
consent to be able to actually bring it.
We have been asked: Well, what if we
just did it next week? The challenge is
this body has just broken down trust.
So we are not confident there is not
going to be a next week and a next
week and a next week. In the mean-
time, we are still not moving nomi-
nees. We are still stuck.
So we have asked a very simple
thing: Let’s move this idea today,
where we know we have 60 of our col-
leagues ready to be able to pass it
today, in regular order in the process.
We are just asking one thing; that is,
consent to be able to do it.
I am planning to bring that request
for consent in just a moment, but I
would like to be able to yield time to
my colleague Senator SCHATZ from Ha-
waii to be able to speak on this same
issue because he has also worked very
hard on rules and trying to be able to
make this Senate work.
So, with that, I yield the floor.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Hawaii.
Mr. SCHATZ. Mr. President, he is
right. He is asking for unanimous con-
sent, and we don’t have unanimous
consent. We do not have unanimity.
What we do have, and Senator
LANKFORD is right, is now a critical
mass of people who are willing to en-
tertain changes to the way that we
process nominees. That is a pretty big
deal. That is a pretty big deal.
This would be the first major bipar-
tisan rules reform, I think, in a polit-
ical generation, maybe several polit-
ical generations. And it is not your
usual suspects of moderates who might
be able to get you guys to 60 but a pret-
ty wide swath of U.S. Senators on the
Democratic side to try to reform the
rules on a bipartisan basis. And we are
achingly close to doing this like adults.
It is not lost on me on 9/11 and after
the terrible political assassination of
Mr. Kirk that we have a special obliga-
tion to demonstrate that politics is a
substitute for violence and not a pre-
cursor to violence. We have to dem-
onstrate that we can be adults.
So we were achingly close to a deal,
but I am afraid that my colleagues on
the other side of the aisle have run out
of patience.
I understand the overall argument

PAGE 33

So were we to work a weekend to try
to land this airplane, that would be
beneficial to the country, to the body,
to Republicans and Democrats alike.
We are actually very close, and Sen-
ator LANKFORD knows that. I think he
is as frustrated as I am about how
achingly close we are to behaving like
adults.
I don’t know who it is or what the
dynamic was, but about an hour ago,
everybody just said: Nah, I don’t care
how close we are. We are just going to
do this because we are going to start to
lose Members. We are going to start to
lose momentum. The weekend is hard.
Maybe we are going to get yelled at
from the left; you are going to get
yelled at from the right; and we can’t
withstand that so we just have got to
go through with it. It is a damn shame.
Maybe this exercise builds a little
muscle memory for at least exploring
how to have a bipartisan negotiation.
Maybe there is some silver lining to
this. Maybe there is some under-
standing that this institution actually
matters, especially in this polarized
and divided time. But I have to tell
you, I am deeply disappointed at the
extent to which Members on our side of
the aisle and your side of the aisle put
themselves in a position of some polit-
ical peril to try to stabilize the coun-
try and be the ballast that everybody
needs across America.
We were trending well. We were
trending well. I know how negotiations
go. They go up and down. They go side-
ways. They stall a bit. People get a lit-
tle irritated. But we really were
trending well. And I am legitimately
shocked that we are like 94 percent of
the way there, and somebody just woke
up and said: Do you know what? Never
mind. We are going to do the thing we
were planning on doing originally.
So hope springs eternal, but this is a
deep disappointment. And it didn’t
have to be this way. All we had to do—
and I am going to offer this consent
later, but I want everybody to under-
stand what this consent means. I am
going to ask unanimous consent that
the cloture vote upon reconsideration
with respect to Executive Calendar No.
S. Res. 377 be at a time to be deter-
mined by the majority leader, in con-
sultation with the Democratic leader,
no earlier than Monday; and that if
cloture is invoked upon reconsider-
ation, the postcloture time be deemed
expired.
What does that mean? It means that
you would have kept your optionality
to go nuclear on Monday and not have
lost a thing. The leader would have
been able to go nuclear on Monday if
negotiations never went anywhere, if
they went sideways, if they tanked,
and no time would have been lost.

negotiations open. And we ran a hot-
line on that, and it cleared our hotline.
We had some very difficult conversa-
tions with Members who hate this idea.
But just to keep the aperture open to
renegotiate and to preserve the major-
ity’s prerogative to move forward with
some pace, we accommodated that.
I thought, Great. We are trending
well. We are going to wake up in the
morning; we are going to get on some
conference calls; and we are going to
see whether there is a pathway.
I don’t know whether there would
have been a pathway, but I know today
that the majority party in the U.S.
Senate decided to foreclose the possi-
bility of bipartisanship, and that is a
real disappointment to me.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Oregon.
Mr. MERKLEY. Mr. President, I
missed the conversation on the floor—
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator needs consent to speak.
Mr. MERKLEY. I ask unanimous
consent to speak—for 3 minutes for
each.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
Mr. MERKLEY. Thank you, and
thank you to my colleague from Okla-
homa.
The issue we are addressing needs to
be addressed. The nomination process
is entirely broken. People are sick and
tired of bringing their expertise to the
Senate and basically being an autom-
aton in a nomination factory. So that
is why there is great sympathy for us
working together to resolve this.
I put forward a somewhat different
version of the world from my colleague
from Oklahoma and said: Let’s do a
block of time where multiple people
can be debated simultaneously. That
alone speeds things up by six to eight
times because it is not 2 hours or 120
minutes per nominee. Let’s create a
motion where we go directly to that
block of time, and because of the block
of time, you don’t have to have cloture
on it in order to vote. Let’s speed up
how we hold those votes.
I felt we could get to wiping out the
backlog through some of the agree-
ments that were done before August
and by accelerated consideration and
preserve the ability to vote on each
nominee.
I had concerns about the en bloc be-
cause I think we have a constitutional
responsibility, if there is a bad apple,
to weigh in on that and be accountable
to our constituents on whether we
favor or disfavor that individual. So I
proposed an amendment.
I do appreciate my colleague working
to arrange to have a vote on that
amendment that said 10 Members in
the minority, or minority-majority,

modifications of that that could ad-
dress that. But I was one of the people
who said, as written initially, I
couldn’t vote for unanimous consent to
just adopt it. But to consider it on this
floor—yes, I can vote for it to be con-
sidered on this floor because that is
what we should be doing. We should be
bringing rules ideas to this floor to be
wrestled with in order to make this
Chamber work better.
And so I appreciate that the plan
wasn’t to just try to get UC on the pro-
posal but to get UC to consider it. Why
shouldn’t we all agree to that? So I am
not sure where the reservation is, the
holdout. I have heard that there are
folks who like the idea of a supernova
nuclear option and therefore want to
blow up normal consideration of a
standing order, of a new proposal
standing order.
But I just—I guess, having missed the
presentation, if I missed it, from the
majority leader, I would say maybe we
should take an hour and try to resolve
that or adopt what my colleague has
said, to iron out the details over the
weekend—because it is a big deal. It is
a big deal to go nuclear. It is a big deal
to adopt a new idea that hadn’t been
widely circulated until the last few
days.
So I cast my heart and my vote with
the idea of let’s try to figure this out.
I thank the President.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Oklahoma.
UNANIMOUSCONSENTREQUEST—S. RES. 384
Mr. LANKFORD. Mr. President, I
want to bring a unanimous consent re-
quest, but I would say I represent—
every single Republican is in agree-
ment to this. Every single Republican
was ready today to be able to move on
what was an agreed-upon bipartisan
agreement—not by all; understanding
that. But, again, we have a super-
majority of Members of this body that
are being blocked by a small group of
the minority party saying they don’t
want to allow consent to vote on it—
just to vote on it. So we are stuck.
So, as if in legislative session, I ask
unanimous consent that the Senate
proceed to the immediate consider-
ation of the Lankford resolution, S.
Res. 384, which is at the desk. I further
ask that there be up to 30 minutes of
debate on the resolution, equally di-
vided between the two leaders or their
designees; further, that following the
use or yielding back of that time, the
Senate vote on an amendment from
Senator MERKLEY, if offered, and fol-
lowing disposition of the Merkley
amendment, the Senate vote on the
resolution, as amended, if amended,
with no further intervening action or
debate, with 60 affirmative votes re-
quired for adoption of the resolution.

PAGE 34

file cloture. Right? That is what you
do. If you have got the votes, you just
sort of move through the process of
taking the vote.
What they are asking for is una-
nimity, and we don’t have it. And so if
you are interested in enacting this on a
bipartisan basis, there is a process for
doing that. It is available to you. But,
again, it is more a matter of running
out of patience than running out of
time. We are leaving probably this
evening, and then we have Friday, Sat-
urday, Sunday off—not off. I under-
stand people work weekends. Whatever.
But not here, let’s say. And then our
first vote will be 5:30 on Monday. There
is time. There is just no desire to go
through the process. Right?
So it is true—I am not actually sure
that you would have 60 votes for that,
but there is a way to test it, and that
is to file cloture on a new standing
order or a new resolution or whatever
the procedural pathway is.
What Senator LANKFORD is asking us
to do is to have unanimity for a rules
change to have the Senate not vote on
individual nominations. Right? That is
15 at a time, and you have to go yes on
all of them or no on all of them. And I
don’t love that idea, but I was willing
to entertain it as a sort of matter of
principle to try to sort of stabilize this
body. But they have run out of pa-
tience, not run out of time. So, there-
fore, I object.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The ob-
jection is heard.
The Senator from Hawaii.
UNANIMOUSCONSENTREQUEST—S. RES. 377
Mr. SCHATZ. Mr. President, I ask
unanimous consent that the cloture
vote, upon reconsideration, with re-
spect to Executive Calendar No. 1, S.
Res. 377, be at a time to be determined
by the majority leader in consultation
with the Democratic leader, no earlier
than Monday, September 15; further,
that if cloture is invoked upon recon-
sideration, the postcloture time be ex-
pired; finally, that it be in order for the
majority leader to make a point of
order prior to the cloture vote upon re-
consideration of Executive Calendar
No. 1, S. Res. 377.
This would buy us the time we need
and not cost the leader anything.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Is there
objection?
Mr. THUNE. Mr. President, reserving
the right to object.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The ma-
jority leader.
Mr. THUNE. Mr. President, I would
just say to my colleagues on the Demo-
cratic side: How much time is enough?
How much time is enough?
The proposal that we are voting on,
or want to vote on, and just asked con-
sent to get on has been around for 2

posal made by Democrats. We don’t in-
clude judges in this. Your proposal did.
We are asking you to vote on a Dem-
ocrat proposal, and you are saying: No,
we won’t even vote on it; we won’t even
get on it.
Give me a break. Two years is not
long enough? How about 8 months—8
months of this? Eight months of this.
Look at that chart. Zero. Every Presi-
dent going back to 41, George H.W.
Bush, has had a majority—a super-
majority—of their nominees approved
here in the Senate by unanimous con-
sent or voice vote. Look at that: 98 per-
cent—98 percent for Bill Clinton, 90
percent for George W. Bush, 90 percent
for President Obama, 65 percent for
Trump 1, 57 percent for Biden. Not
trending in the right direction, which
argues for everything that is being said
here today about we need to fix a bro-
ken process. But that—that is an em-
barrassment. Zero.
Show the other chart. We have a sec-
ond chart here. This is what we are
talking about. We have to fix this,
guys, and we have had plenty of time
to do it. Eight months. Eight months.
This is what we left on before the Au-
gust break was this issue. So now we
are 6 weeks into it. We have had all
week. I have been saying all week: We
are going to vote on this on Thursday
one way or the other; we are going to
change this process in a way that gets
us back to what every President prior
has had when it comes to the way that
these nominees are treated here in the
U.S. Senate—by both sides, Repub-
licans and Democrats; both Presidents,
Republicans and Democrats. This is the
way it has been handled. Look at that.
Zero. President Biden had 530 of his
nominees confirmed by voice vote or
unanimous consent.
This, ladies and gentlemen, has to be
fixed. We offered you a proposal that
had your fingerprints on it. It wasn’t
even your fingerprints; you initiated it.
And all we are saying is: Give us a
chance to vote on it. And even some of
your own Members—the Senator from
Oregon said: I want an amendment. We
said: Fine, you can have an amendment
vote.
But we need to vote. We need to fix
this. And, yeah, we could drag it out
over the weekend, and you could start
adding more conditions and more ideas.
The good idea fairy will start to cir-
culate around here and we will have a
whole bunch more conversations and it
will drag on and nothing will get done.
It is time to move. It is time to quit
stalling. It is time to vote. It is time to
fix this place. And the ideal way to fix
it would be in a bipartisan way: Demo-
crats and Republicans coming together
behind a proposal that makes all the
sense in the world and that both sides

that preserved the institutional prerog-
atives of the Senate, that preserves ad-
vice and consent of the Constitution,
but gets away from that embarrassing
statistic and the fact that we are
spending all our time.
Do you guys like the fact that we are
a personnel department, that the Sen-
ate spends two-thirds of its time on
nominees? We have cast over 500 votes
this year in the Senate, more than any
Senate in history at this point in the
term of the Senate.
To finish just the nominees in the
pipeline today between now and the
end of the year, we would have to cast
another 600 votes—not to mention all
the intervening time periods and filing
cloture and everything else. That is
what this means: another 600 votes. We
have cast over 500 in the first 7 months
of this session. We have to cast more
than that in the last 31⁄2months just to
get the pipeline cleared, which doesn’t
mean all the additional noms that are
coming through—or judges.
This is a broken process, folks. That
is an embarrassment. That is what you
gave us.
Mr. MERKLEY. Mr. President, would
my colleague yield for a question?
Mr. THUNE. No, I won’t yield.
We are going to fix this. We are going
to start to fix it today, I hope. And I
would hope that when we have people
in good faith put forward an offer, that
you would, at least, let us get on that
good offer—a solution, a solution that
is bipartisan, initiated by Democrats 2
years ago, which has been talked about
ad infinitum, ad nauseam, just this
week alone—not to mention in the 6
weeks going back to the end of the
July work period.
So, Mr. President, I object.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Objec-
tion is heard.
Mr. THUNE. I ask for the yeas and
nays.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Is there a
sufficient second?
There appears to be a sufficient sec-
ond.
VOTEONMOTION
The question is on agreeing to the
motion to reconsider.
The clerk will call the roll.
The senior assistant legislative clerk
called the roll.
Mr. BARRASSO. The following Sen-
ator is necessarily absent: the Senator
from Oklahoma (Mr. MULLIN).
Mr. DURBIN. I announce that the
Senator from Pennsylvania (Mr.
FETTERMAN) and the Senator from New
Hampshire (Ms. HASSAN) are nec-
essarily absent.
The result was announced—yeas 52,
nays 45, as follows:
[Rollcall Vote No. 514 Ex.]

PAGE 35

Hawley McConnell Scott (FL)
Hoeven McCormick Scott (SC)
Husted Moody Sheehy
Hyde-Smith Moran Sullivan
Johnson Moreno Thune
Justice Murkowski Tillis
Kennedy Paul Tuberville
Lankford Ricketts Wicker
Lee Risch
Young
Lummis Rounds
Marshall Schmitt
NAYS—45
Alsobrooks Hirono Rosen
Baldwin Kaine Sanders
Bennet Kelly Schatz
Blumenthal Kim Schiff
Blunt Rochester King Schumer
Booker Klobuchar Shaheen
Cantwell Luja´n Slotkin
Coons Markey Smith
Cortez Masto Merkley Van Hollen
Duckworth Murphy Warner
Durbin Murray Warnock
Gallego Ossoff Warren
Gillibrand Padilla Welch
Heinrich Peters Whitehouse
Hickenlooper Reed Wyden
NOT VOTING—3
Fetterman Hassan Mullin
The motion was agreed to.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The ma-
jority leader.
POINTOFORDER
Mr. THUNE. Mr. President, I make a
point of order that, consistent with the
precedent of the Senate established No-
vember 21, 2013, the threshold for clo-
ture on an executive resolution for the
en bloc consideration of nominations
with a calendar number on the Execu-
tive Calendar, other than those on
level 1 of the executive schedule under
5 U.S.C. 5312 or article III judges, is a
simple majority.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
precedent set on November 21, 2013, ap-
plied only to the consideration of the
nomination, not to multiple nomina-
tions and not to executive resolutions
of any kind. The point of order is not
well taken.
APPEALINGTHERULINGOFTHECHAIR
Mr. THUNE. I appeal the ruling of
the chair and ask for the yeas and
nays.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Is there a
sufficient second?
There appears to be a sufficient sec-
ond.
And the question is, Shall the deci-
sion of the Chair stand as the judgment
of the Senate?
The clerk will call the roll.
The senior assistant legislative clerk
called the roll.
Mr. DURBIN. I announce that the
Senator from Pennsylvania (Mr.
FETTERMAN) and the Senator from New
Hampshire (Ms. HASSAN) are nec-
essarily absent.
The result was announced—yeas 45,
nays 53, as follows:
[Rollcall Vote No. 515 Ex.]
YEAS—45

Murphy Sanders Van Hollen
Murray Schatz Warner
Ossoff Schiff Warnock
Padilla Schumer Warren
Peters Shaheen Welch
Reed Slotkin Whitehouse
Rosen Smith Wyden
NAYS—53
Banks Graham Moreno
Barrasso Grassley Mullin
Blackburn Hagerty Murkowski
Boozman Hawley Paul
Britt Hoeven Ricketts
Budd Husted Risch
Capito Hyde-Smith Rounds
Cassidy Johnson Schmitt
Collins Justice
Scott (FL)
Cornyn Kennedy
Scott (SC)
Cotton Lankford
Sheehy
Cramer Lee
Crapo Lummis Sullivan
Cruz Marshall Thune
Curtis McConnell Tillis
Daines McCormick Tuberville
Ernst Moody Wicker
Fischer Moran Young
NOT VOTING—2
Fetterman Hassan
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The yeas
are 45, the nays are 53.
The decision of the Chair is not sus-
tained.
VOTEONCLOTUREMOTIONUPON
RECONSIDERATION
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
question now occurs on the motion to
invoke cloture on Executive Calendar
No. 1, S. Res. 377, upon reconsideration.
The yeas and nays are mandatory
under the rule.
The clerk will call the roll.
The senior assistant legislative clerk
called the roll.
Mr. DURBIN. I announce that the
Senator from Pennsylvania (Mr.
FETTERMAN), the Senator from New
Hampshire (Ms. HASSAN), the Senator
from Arizona (Mr. KELLY), and the Sen-
ator from Michigan (Mr. PETERS), are
necessarily absent.
The yeas and nays resulted—yeas 53,
nays 43, as follows:
[Rollcall Vote No. 516 Ex.]
YEAS—53
Banks Graham Moreno
Barrasso Grassley Mullin
Blackburn Hagerty Murkowski
Boozman Hawley Paul
Britt Hoeven Ricketts
Budd Husted Risch
Capito Hyde-Smith Rounds
Cassidy Johnson Schmitt
Collins Justice
Scott (FL)
Cornyn Kennedy
Scott (SC)
C
C
o
ra
tt
m
o
e
n
r
L
L
a
ee
n kford
Sheehy
Crapo Lummis Sullivan
Cruz Marshall Thune
Curtis McConnell Tillis
Daines McCormick Tuberville
Ernst Moody Wicker
Fischer Moran Young
NAYS—43
Alsobrooks Heinrich Padilla
Baldwin Hickenlooper Reed
Bennet Hirono Rosen
Blumenthal Kaine Sanders
Blunt Rochester Kim

Warner Warren Whitehouse
Warnock Welch Wyden
NOT VOTING—4
Fetterman Kelly Peters
Hassan
The PRESIDING OFFICER. On this
vote the yeas are 53. The nays are 43.
Pursuant to the precedent of Sep-
tember 11, 2025, the motion is agreed
to.
The motion was agreed to.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
Democratic leader.
RULESCHANGE
Mr. SCHUMER. Mr. President, I just
want everyone here and in the country
to understand what our Republican col-
leagues just did.
For the third time this year, Repub-
licans just resorted to the so-called nu-
clear option in the Senate, weakening
the Senate even further and turning
this Chamber into a conveyor belt for
unqualified Trump nominees—a con-
veyor belt for unqualified Trump nomi-
nees.
Make no mistake. This move by Re-
publicans was not so much about end-
ing obstruction, as they claim; rather,
it was another act of genuflection to
the executive branch.
Democrats have shown very clearly
we are willing to negotiate. We did
that at the end of the last work period.
We were doing it today. But what Re-
publicans have done is chip away at the
Senate even more to give Donald
Trump more power and to rubberstamp
whomever he wants, whenever he
wants them, no questions asked. That
is not the Senate’s job.
We are supposed to debate and take
votes on nominees, especially when the
executive branch is grossly breaking
norms by sending us woefully unquali-
fied, unscrupulous, and, in some cases,
deeply dishonest individuals for power-
ful and important positions.
By going nuclear today, Republicans
are saying: We don’t want to do our
jobs. They are saying: Whatever Trump
wants, we will do it.
Make no mistake. Because of the
harmful step Republicans took today,
the historically bad nominees Donald
Trump has sent to the Senate all year
long will get even worse.
Republicans now own even more than
they had before: the terrible nominees
who are about to sail through this
Chamber, the special interests will get
even richer, and the American people
will be the ones who are hurt the most.
This is a sad, regrettable day for the
Senate, and I believe it won’t take very
long for Republicans to wish they had
not pushed the Chamber further down
this awful road.
I yield the floor.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Georgia.

PAGE 36

(Moment of silence.)
Amen.
POLITICALVIOLENCE
Mr. President, I rise tonight in deep
sadness for a nation that is increas-
ingly beset by political violence.
Yesterday, political activist Charlie
Kirk was killed while speaking to stu-
dents on a college campus—a place
that is set up for the exchange of ideas.
He was just 31 years old, a husband, a
father of young children. I pray for his
wife Erika and for his children who
must now make their way without
him.
And his death comes on the heels of
the devastating assassination of Speak-
er Emerita Melissa Hortman and her
husband Mark Hortman of Minnesota,
victims of premeditated political vio-
lence. This should shock the conscience
of every American, and it should cause
all of us to rise up and say: Enough.
Let me be clear. I disagreed with
Charlie Kirk on just about everything,
but I rise tonight not in spite of those
differences but, in a real sense, because
of those differences. I rise to say that
he had a right to speak, to think, to
change his mind or not, to engage with
others, to participate in the free ex-
change of ideas, to argue it out.
That is what it means to live in a de-
mocracy. That is who we are. We
Americans engage in loud, heated, and
sometimes rambunctious debates, not
as a precursor to violence but to avoid
violence. And we must learn to dis-
agree without becoming violently dis-
agreeable.
Let me be clear. There is nothing
more anti-democratic than political vi-
olence. Democracy is about creating
space for competing voices and coun-
tervailing visions about who we are as
one people, and that debate in the pub-
lic square is what has made us better
over time.
So while pushing back—sometimes
hard—against those with whom we vig-
orously disagree, we must, with the
same voice and vigor, defend their
right to be—their right to be heard, to
be free.
Our American family is held together
by these democratic ideals, but I am
afraid that what we are seeing increas-
ingly around us is the tearing of those
threads that bind us together—‘‘e
pluribus unum’’; out of many, one—the
ability to see past our political dif-
ferences and see in the humanity of the
other a glimpse of our own.
So we must condemn what happened
to Charlie Kirk, whether we are on the
right or on the left, because con-
demning that heinous crime is not
about the difference between right and
left; it is the difference between right
and wrong. And what happened yester-
day was wrong. Whatever the motiva-

What fewer people remember or know
is that in 1974, his precious mother Al-
berta Williams King, the wife of the
pastor of the church, Martin Luther
King, Sr., was shot and killed in our
church one Sunday morning while
playing ‘‘The Lord’s Prayer’’ on the
organ.
Martin Luther King, Sr., was asked
what he thought about all of this, and
I am struck and inspired by his words.
Having lost his precious wife on a Sun-
day morning, having witnessed his son
struck down, Martin Luther King, Sr.,
said:
I will never let any man pull me down so
low as to hate him.
He said:
Hate is too heavy a burden to bear.
He is right, and that is why in this
moment, we must condemn political
violence. But we must also condemn
hate and hate speech. You cannot con-
demn one without condemning the
other.
Hate is itself a kind of violence that
kills the spirit and corrupts the soul of
a person and of a nation. That vicious
cycle of violence and hate, of hate and
violence can only lead to the demise of
our country and the destruction of our
humanity.
So in this defining moment, may we
resist the seductive sirens of those who
are trying to convince us that we are
at war with one another. Amidst our
fierce debates, I submit that at the end
of the day, we are all we have got—we
the people. All we really have is one
another. And a democracy is the imper-
fect institutionalization of that moral
insight. All we have is one another.
You either have a democracy, or you
have political violence. You cannot
have a democracy awash in political vi-
olence.
So every single day, let us choose de-
mocracy, choose what the Apostle Paul
called the more excellent way—the way
of love.
Love comes alive in the complicated
story of a diverse people who refuse to
give up on one another. It takes
strength to love. It takes courage to
love. It takes patience and persistence
to love.
God grant us strength and courage.
God grant us patience and persistence
for the facing of this hour and for the
living of these days.
I yield the floor.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Arkansas.
f
LEGISLATIVE SESSION
MORNING BUSINESS
Mr. COTTON. Mr. President, I ask
unanimous consent that the Senate re-
sume legislative session and be in a pe-
riod of morning business, with Sen-

requires that Congress receive prior no-
tification of certain proposed arms
sales as defined by that statute. Upon
such notification, the Congress has 30
calendar days during which the sale
may be reviewed. The provision stipu-
lates that, in the Senate, the notifica-
tion of proposed sales shall be sent to
the chairman of the Senate Foreign
Relations Committee.
In keeping with the committee’s in-
tention to see that relevant informa-
tion is still available to the full Sen-
ate, I ask unanimous consent to have
printed in the RECORDthe notifications
that have been received. If the cover
letter references a classified annex,
then such an annex is available to all
Senators in the office of the Foreign
Relations Committee, room SD–423.
There being no objection, the mate-
rial was ordered to be printed in the
RECORD, as follows:
DEFENSESECURITY
COOPERATIONAGENCY,
Washington, DC.
Hon. JAMESE. RISCH,
Chairman, Committee on Foreign Relations,
U.S. Senate, Washington, DC.
DEAR MR. CHAIRMAN: Pursuant to the re-
porting requirements of Section 36(b)(1) of
the Arms Export Control Act, as amended,
we are forwarding herewith Transmittal No.
25–60, concerning the Air Force’s proposed
Letter(s) of Offer and Acceptance to the Gov-
ernment of Finland for defense articles and
services estimated to cost $1.07 billion. We
will issue a news release to notify the public
of this proposed sale upon delivery of this
letter to your office.
Sincerely,
MICHAELF. MILLER,
Director.
Enclosures.
TRANSMITTALNO. 25–60
Notice of Proposed Issuance of Letter of
Offer Pursuant to Section 36(b)(1) of the
Arms Export Control Act, as amended
(i) Prospective Purchaser: Government of
Finland.
(ii) Total Estimated Value:
Major Defense Equipment* $0.95 billion.
Other $0.12 billion.
Total $1.07 billion.
(iii) Description and Quantity or Quan-
tities of Articles or Services under Consider-
ation for Purchase:
Major Defense Equipment (MDE):
Up to four hundred five (405) AIM–120D–3
Advanced Medium Range Air-to-Air Missiles
(AMRAAM).
Eight (8) AIM–120D–3 guidance sections,
with precise positioning provided by either
the Selective Availability Anti-Spoofing
Module or M-Code.
Non-Major or Defense Equipment:
The following non-MDE items will be in-
cluded: AMRAAM control sections, con-
tainers, and support equipment; Common
Munitions Built-in Test (BIT)/Reprogram-
ming Equipment (CMBRE); ADU–891 adaptor
group test sets; munitions support and sup-
port equipment; spare parts, consumables
and accessories, and repair and return sup-
port; weapons software and support equip-
ment; classified software delivery and sup-
port; classified publications and technical
documentation; personnel training and

PAGE 37

(v) Prior Related Cases, if any: FI–D–YAK.
(vi) Sales Commission, Fee, etc., Paid, Of-
fered, or Agreed to be Paid: None known at
this time.
(vii) Sensitivity of Technology Contained
in the Defense Article or Defense Services
Proposed to be Sold: See Attached Annex.
(viii) Date Report Delivered to Congress:
September 10, 2025.
*As defined in Section 47(6) of the Arms
Export Control Act.
POLICYJUSTIFICATION
Finland—AIM–120D–3 Advanced Medium
Range Air-to-Air Missiles
The Government of Finland has requested
to buy up to four hundred five (405) AIM–
120D–3 Advanced Medium Range Air-to-Air
Missiles (AMRAAM); and eight (8) AIM–120D–
3 guidance sections, with precise positioning
provided by either the Selective Availability
AntiSpoofing Module or M–Code. The fol-
lowing non-MDE items will be included:
AMRAAM control sections, containers, and
support equipment; Common Munitions
Built-in Test (BIT)/Reprogramming Equip-
ment (CMBRE); ADU–891 adaptor group test
sets; munitions support and support equip-
ment; spare parts, consumables and acces-
sories, and repair and return support; weap-
ons software and support equipment; classi-
fied software delivery and support; classified
publications and technical documentation;
personnel training and training equipment;
transportation support; site surveys; U.S.
Government and contractor engineering,
technical, and logistics support services; and
other related elements of logistics and pro-
gram support. The estimated total cost is
$1.07 billion.
This proposed sale will support the foreign
policy and national security objectives of
the United States by improving the security
of a NATO Ally that is a force for political
stability and economic progress in Europe.
The proposed sale will improve Finland’s
capability to meet current and future
threats and enhance its interoperability with
U.S. and other allied forces. Finland already
has AMRAAMs in its inventory and will have
no difficulty absorbing these articles into its
armed forces.
The proposed sale of this equipment and
support will not alter the basic military bal-
ance in the region.
The principal contractor will be RTX Cor-
poration, located in Arlington, VA. At this
time, the U.S. Government is not aware of
any offset agreement proposed in connection
with this potential sale. Any offset agree-
ment will be defined in negotiations between
the purchaser and the contractor.
Implementation of this proposed sale will
not require the assignment of any additional
U.S. Government or contractor representa-
tives to Finland.
There will be no adverse impact on U.S. de-
fense readiness as a result of this proposed
sale.
TRANSMITTALNO. 25–60
Notice of Proposed Issuance of Letter of
Offer Pursuant to Section 36(b)(1) of the
Arms Export Control Act
Annex Item No. vii
(vii) Sensitivity of Technology:
1. The AIM–120D–3 series Advanced Medium
Range Air-to-Air Missile (AMRAAM) is a su-
personic, air-launched, aerial intercept,
guided missile featuring digital technology
and microminiature solid-state electronics.

the guidance section that performs all radar
signal processing, mid-course and terminal
guidance, flight control, target detection,
and warhead detonation.
2. The Common Munitions Built-In-Test
(BIT)/Reprogramming Equipment (CMBRE)
is support equipment used to interface with
weapon systems to initiate and report BIT
results, and upload and download flight soft-
ware. CMBRE supports multiple munitions
platforms with a range of applications that
perform preflight checks, periodic mainte-
nance checks, loading of Operational Flight
Program data, loading of munitions mission
planning data, loading of Global Positioning
System (GPS) cryptographic keys, and de-
classification of munitions memory.
3. The ADU–891 adapter group test set pro-
vides the physical and electrical interface
between the CMBRE and the missile.
4. This potential sale will include
AMRAAM guidance and control section
spares.
5. The highest level of classification of de-
fense articles, components, and services in-
cluded in this potential sale is SECRET.
6. If a technologically advanced adversary
were to obtain knowledge of the specific
hardware and software elements, the infor-
mation could be used to develop counter-
measures that might reduce system effec-
tiveness or be used in the development of a
system with similar or advanced capabili-
ties.
7. A determination has been made that
Finland can provide substantially the same
degree of protection for the sensitive tech-
nology being released as the U.S. Govern-
ment. This proposed sale is necessary in fur-
therance of the U.S. foreign policy and na-
tional security objectives outlined in the
Policy Justification.
8. All defense articles and services listed in
this transmittal have been authorized for re-
lease and export to the Government of Fin-
land.
f
ARMS SALES NOTIFICATION
Mr. RISCH. Mr. President, section
36(b) of the Arms Export Control Act
requires that Congress receive prior no-
tification of certain proposed arms
sales as defined by that statute. Upon
such notification, the Congress has 30
calendar days during which the sale
may be reviewed. The provision stipu-
lates that, in the Senate, the notifica-
tion of proposed sales shall be sent to
the chairman of the Senate Foreign
Relations Committee.
In keeping with the committee’s in-
tention to see that relevant informa-
tion is still available to the full Sen-
ate, I ask unanimous consent to have
printed in the RECORDthe notifications
that have been received. If the cover
letter references a classified annex,
then such an annex is available to all
Senators in the office of the Foreign
Relations Committee, room SD–423.
There being no objection, the mate-
rial was ordered to be printed in the
RECORD, as follows:
DEFENSESECURITY
COOPERATIONAGENCY,
Washington, DC.

25–0W. This notification relates to enhance-
ments or upgrades from the level of sensi-
tivity of technology or capability described
in the Section 36(b)(1) AECA certification 18–
03 of July 10, 2018.
Sincerely,
MICHAELF. MILLER,
Director.
Enclosure.
TRANSMITTALNO. 25–0W
Report of Enhancement or Upgrade of Sensi-
tivity of Technology or Capability (sec.
36(b)(5)(C), AECA)
(i) Prospective Purchaser: Government of
the United Kingdom.
(ii) Sec. 36(b)(1), AECA Transmittal No.:
18–03, Date: July 10, 2018, Implementing
Agency: Air Force.
(iii) Description: On July 10, 2018, Congress
was notified by congressional certification
transmittal number 18–03 of the possible
sale, under Section 36(b)(1) of the Arms Ex-
port Control Act, of up to two hundred (200)
AIM–120D Advanced Medium Range Air-to-
Air Missiles (AMRAAM). Also included in
this sale were missile containers; weapon
system support equipment; support and test
equipment; site surveys; transportation; re-
pair and return support; warranties; spare
and repair parts; publications and technical
documentation; maintenance and personnel
training; training equipment; U.S. Govern-
ment and contractor engineering, logistics,
and technical support services; and other re-
lated elements of logistics and program sup-
port. The estimated total cost was $650 mil-
lion. Major Defense Equipment (MDE) con-
stituted $600 million of this total.
On March 12, 2019, Congress was notified by
congressional certification transmittal num-
ber 0C-19, of the addition of MDE items from
what was originally notified: one (1)
AMRAAM AIM–120D Integrated Test Vehicle
(ITV) and ten (10) AMRAAM Instrumented
Air Vehicles. Additionally, this transmittal
updated the notification of non-MDE to add
embedded communication security devices.
The addition of these items resulted in a net
increase in cost of MDE to $618 million. The
total case value remained $650 million.
On November 20, 2024, Congress was noti-
fied by congressional certification trans-
mittal number 24–0V, of the inclusion of the
following MDE items: fifty-six (56) AIM–120D
Advanced Medium Range Air-to-Air Missiles
(AMRAAM); and four (4) AIM–120 AMRAAM
guidance sections. The following non-MDE
items were also included: weapons systems
support and weapons support equipment. The
estimated total value of the new items was
$174 million but did not result in an increase
to the estimated total case value of $650 mil-
lion. The estimated total MDE value re-
mained at $618 million of this total.
This transmittal notifies the inclusion of
the following additional MDE items: two
hundred forty-four (244) AIM–120D Advanced
Medium Range Air-to-Air Missiles
(AMRAAM); four (4) AIM–120D–3 AMRAAM
guidance sections; and one (1) AMRAAM In-
tegrated Test Vehicle (ITV). The following
non-MDE items will also be included:
AMRAAM containers, components, parts,
and support equipment; KGV–135 A embedded
communications security (COMSEC) device;
and other related elements of logistics and
program support. The estimated total value
of the new items is $790 million. The esti-
mated MDE value will increase by $742 mil-
lion. The estimated non-MDE value will in-

PAGE 38

The inclusion of this MDE represents an in-
crease in capability over what was pre-
viously notified.
(v) Justification: This proposed sale will
support the foreign policy and national secu-
rity objectives of the United States by im-
proving the security of a key NATO Ally
that is an important force for political sta-
bility and economic progress in Europe.
(vi) Sensitivity of Technology:
The KGV–135 A embedded COMSEC device
is a high-speed general purpose encryptor
and decryptor module used for wideband data
encryption.
The highest level of classification of de-
fense articles, components, and services in-
cluded in this potential sale is SECRET.
(VII) Date Report Delivered to Congress:
September 10, 2025.
f
VOTE EXPLANATION
Mr. GALLEGO. Mr. President, I
missed the following votes, but had I
been present, I would have voted no on
rollcall vote No. 451, Motion to invoke
cloture on Executive Calendar No. 95
Joseph Kent, of Washington, to be Di-
rector of the National Counterter-
rorism Center, Office of the Director of
National Intelligence. I missed the fol-
lowing votes, but had I been present, I
would have voted no on rollcall vote
No. 452, Confirmation of Executive Cal-
endar No. 95, Joseph Kent, of Wash-
ington, to be Director of the National
Counterterrorism Center, Office of the
Director of National Intelligence. I
missed the following votes, but had I
been present, I would have voted no on
rollcall vote No. 454, On the Motion to
Discharge, Motion to Discharge S.J.
Res. 41. I missed the following votes,
but had I been present, I would have
voted no on rollcall vote No. 455, On
the Motion to Discharge, Motion to
Discharge S.J. Res. 34. I missed the fol-
lowing votes, but had I been present, I
would have voted no on rollcall vote
No. 457, On the Cloture Motion, Motion
to Invoke Cloture: Matthew Kozma to
be Under Secretary for Intelligence and
Analysis, Department of Homeland Se-
curity. I missed the following votes,
but had I been present, I would have
voted no on rollcall vote No. 458, On
the Motion to Invoke Cloture, Cheryl
Mason to be Inspector General, Depart-
ment of Veterans Affairs. I missed the
following votes, but had I been present,
I would have voted no on rollcall vote
No. 461, On the Nomination, Confirma-
tion: Cheryl Mason, of North Carolina,
to be Inspector General, Department of
Veterans Affairs. I missed the fol-
lowing votes, but had I been present, I
would have voted no on rollcall vote
No. 463, On the Nomination, Confirma-
tion: Matthew Kozma, of Virginia, to
be Under Secretary for Intelligence and
Analysis, Department of Homeland Se-
curity. I missed the following votes,
but had I been present, I would have

but had I been present, I would have
voted no on rollcall vote No. 482, On
the Nomination, Confirmation: Luigi
Rinaldi, of New York, to be Ambas-
sador of the United States of America
to the Oriental Republic of Uruguay. I
missed the following votes, but had I
been present, I would have voted no on
rollcall vote No. 485, On the Cloture
Motion, Motion to Invoke Cloture: An-
drew Puzder to be Representative of
the United States of America to the
European Union with the rank of Am-
bassador. I missed the following votes,
but had I been present, I would have
voted no on rollcall vote No. 486, On
the Nomination, Confirmation: Andrew
Puzder, of Tennessee, to be Representa-
tive of the United States of America to
the European Union with the rank of
Ambassador. I missed the following
votes, but had I been present, I would
have voted no on rollcall vote No. 487,
On the Cloture Motion, Motion to In-
voke Cloture: Brian Burch to be Am-
bassador of the United States of Amer-
ica to the Holy See. I missed the fol-
lowing votes, but had I been present, I
would have voted no on rollcall vote
No. 488, On the Nomination, Confirma-
tion: Brian Burch, of Illinois, to be Am-
bassador of the United States of Amer-
ica to the Holy See. I missed the fol-
lowing votes, but had I been present, I
would have voted no on rollcall vote
No. 496, On the Nomination, Confirma-
tion: John Arrigo, of Florida, to be
Ambassador of the United States of
America to the Portuguese Republic.
f
WELCOMING ECUMENICAL
PATRIARCH BARTHOLOMEW
Mr. VAN HOLLEN. Mr. President, I
rise today to acknowledge the visit of
Ecumenical Patriarch Bartholomew of
Constantinople to Washington, DC.
The Patriarch is the spiritual leader
of 300 million Orthodox Christians
worldwide, including many of my con-
stituents who worship at churches like
the Cathedral of the Annunciation in
Baltimore and Saints Constantine &
Helen Greek Orthodox Church here in
Washington.
Over the course of decades of service
and leadership, the Ecumenical Patri-
arch Bartholomew has refused to let
storms of persecution and violence ex-
tinguish the light of his faith and the
values he holds dear. From his unique
position in Istanbul—the ancient city
that bridges Europe and Asia—he has
been one of our world’s greatest bridge-
builders. He promotes religious toler-
ance, from reconciliation with the
Roman Catholic Church to interfaith
dialogue among Muslims, Christians,
and Jews, and peace between nations.
He is also rightly known as the ‘‘Green
Patriarch’’ for his pioneering work to

Mother Teresa and the Dalai Llama,
and we are glad to have him here. In
these dangerous, divisive times—when
religious liberty and human rights are
under threat around the globe—his
presence could not be more timely.
When Congress awarded the Ecu-
menical Patriarch Bartholomew the
Congressional Gold Medal in 1997, he
delivered an address that still reso-
nates today. He reminded us that ‘‘The
greatest lesson about America lies
under this magnificent dome . . . The
Pentagon embodies might, but the Cap-
itol embodies right. In these halls, dif-
ferent points of view meet and are rec-
onciled. In these halls, narrow inter-
ests are compromised for the greater
good. And, most important to the Or-
thodox Church during many dark dec-
ades, in these halls, human rights are
preserved and human dignity is en-
hanced.’’
We must remember those words and
his unwavering commitment to peace
today. I congratulate the Ecumenical
Patriarch Bartholomew for the rec-
ognition and welcome him to the
United States.
f
WELCOMING ECUMENICAL
PATRIARCH BARTHOLOMEW
Mr. SCHIFF. Mr. President, I rise
today to welcome to Washington, DC,
next week His All-Holiness Ecumenical
Patriarch Bartholomew, the spiritual
leader of Orthodox Christianity.
His All-Holiness is a guiding light for
the 300 million Orthodox Christians, in-
cluding many thousands across Cali-
fornia, from San Diego to Eureka.
More than that, since ascending to his
position in 1991, he has reached beyond
Orthodox Christianity to be an inspira-
tion to people of all faiths around the
world suffering from religious persecu-
tion, violence, and displacement.
Ecumenical Patriarch Bartholomew
has fostered dialogue across the world
and across religions with Christians,
Muslims, and Jews. On today of all
days, I note his efforts to combat inter-
national terrorism, helping lead the ef-
fort to the Brussels Declaration in De-
cember 2001 calling on leaders of all re-
ligions to condemn violence and for-
swear the use of religious justification
for terrorism and mistreatment.
His All-Holiness is also a true cham-
pion of peace, tolerance, and defense of
the environment. His coming to Wash-
ington will highlight the role that reli-
gious leaders play in pursuit of these
goals and remind us to be stewards of
all people and the planet before pur-
suing partisan and personal ends.
I congratulate His All-Holiness on
the well-deserved and highly impres-
sive honor of being awarded the 2025
Templeton Prize, which recognizes
spiritual and scientific advancement.

PAGE 39

In awarding the prize, the Templeton
Foundation noted Bartholomew’s dedi-
cation to environmental causes, for
which he has earned the nickname of
the ‘‘Green Patriarch.’’ The foundation
said his environmental ministry is
‘‘harnessing the power of the sciences
to expand our collective understanding
of humankind’s place and purpose in
the world’’ and that ‘‘Bartholomew has
also deepened Christians’ ideas of what
it means to be faithful in the world
today. It involves caring for all aspects
of God’s creation including the people
around us and the natural world in
which we live.’’
I join American Orthodox Christians,
environmentalists, and peacemakers in
welcoming back to Washington and the
United States His All-Holiness Ecu-
menical Patriarch Bartholomew. Con-
gress will be honored to once again
host him in our Halls next week.
I urge my colleagues to listen to his
message of peace, environmental stew-
ardship, and the importance of bridging
the divides between religions, nations,
and all groups who spend more time on
the things that divide us than those
that should bring us together. We will
gain from his return if we have the wis-
dom to listen.
f
RECOGNIZING THE 50TH ANNIVER-
SARY OF WISCONSIN REGIONAL
TRAINING PARTNERSHIP BUILD-
ING INDUSTRY GROUP SKILLED
TRADE EMPLOYMENT PROGRAM
Ms. BALDWIN. Mr. President, I rise
to recognize the 50th anniversary of
Wisconsin Regional Training Partner-
ship, WRTP, Building Industry Group
Skilled Trade Employment Program’s,
BIG STEP. I am delighted to celebrate
this impactful organization’s 50 years
of service to the State of Wisconsin.
Founded in 1975, WRTP BIG STEP
was determined to improve the labor
force through its efforts in reshaping
apprenticeships. The organization envi-
sioned an environment that inter-
twined diversity, resilience, and cre-
ativity to produce an incredible gen-
eration of workers. Soon, their vision
became a reality as WRTP BIG STEP
developed pre-apprenticeship programs
and advanced training courses that in-
creased the number of minority work-
ers, ensuring everyone has a pathway
to a quality career in the trades.
Over the last 50 years, BIG STEP has
been essential to creating Milwaukee
landmarks, from our skyscrapers to
our sports complexes. After helping
tens of thousands of people take their
first steps into the trades, BIG STEP
has served Wisconsin’s workforce by
building courage, innovation, and eq-
uity.
Today, WRTP BIG STEP creates pre-

career pathways through intercultural
workforce learning, the development of
a skilled talent pipeline, and through
working groups that identify and re-
duce barriers in real time. As just one
example of their work, WRTP BIG
STEP recently welcomed 180 high
school students to their Milwaukee
Summer Trades Academy, introducing
them to careers in construction and
teaching them about skilled trade jobs
and apprenticeship pathways, so they
could consider a future career in the
skilled trades.
We in Wisconsin are so grateful to
WRTP BIG STEP for helping to uplift
our workforce and create the next gen-
eration of leaders. I am honored to rec-
ognize the 50th anniversary of WRTP
BIG STEP and look forward to its con-
tinued success in Wisconsin for years
to come.
f
ADDITIONAL STATEMENTS
RECOGNIZING THE CENTENNIAL
OF ALBERTUS MAGNUS COLLEGE
∑ Mr. BLUMENTHAL. Mr. President, I
rise today to commemorate the centen-
nial celebration of Albertus Magnus
College and honor the hard work and
dedication of its many faculty and
other staff.
Albertus Magnus College was founded
in 1925 by the Dominican Sisters of
Peace in the Prospect Hill neighbor-
hood of New Haven, CT. Originally a
women’s college, the institution be-
came coeducational in 1985. During this
time, a series of construction projects
significantly expanded the campus, in-
cluding new classroom space and a new
athletic center. In 1992 Albertus Mag-
nus began offering its first graduate
program, a master of arts in liberal
studies.
The college provides a holistic, lib-
eral arts-based education that pro-
motes both the attainment and prac-
tical application of knowledge. It is
dedicated to providing learning oppor-
tunities that respond to the diverse
needs of its students and the ethical
challenges of society, cultivating an
atmosphere of mutual respect and
moral behavior. The college places
great emphasis on lifelong learning, in-
dividual student development, and the
advancement of moral and ethical lead-
ership.
Albertus Magnus has approximately
500 full-time traditional undergradu-
ates and 1,000 adult undergraduate and
graduate students. The college has sig-
nificantly advanced the cause of edu-
cational equity and diversity; 5 in 10 of
its undergraduates are first-generation
college students, and over 9 in 10 are el-
igible for financial aid. The institution

common good, and advocated for the
development of each student as a
unique individual. The college’s track
record and commitment to its ideals is
inspiring and sets a strong example for
all educational institutions.
Albertus Magnus remains a fixture of
the New Haven community with the
positive impacts of its educational ex-
perience extending worldwide. I hope
my colleagues will join me in com-
memorating its centennial celebration
and recognizing the invaluable work of
its faculty and other staff.∑
f
RECOGNIZING THE 40TH ANNIVER-
SARY OF FLORIDA CHRISTIAN
UNIVERSITY
∑ Mr. SCOTT of Florida. Mr. President,
I rise today to acknowledge Florida
Christian University on its most recent
anniversary. For 40 years, Florida
Christian University has served the
citizens of Florida and the world by
providing students with a world-class
education and acting as a pillar of
strength and perseverance for Florida
students.
I know firsthand that a great edu-
cation can be life-changing—it serves
as the foundation many students need
to reach their goals and live their
American dream—and it is incredible
to see people from all over the globe
pursue their dreams in our State.
Florida Christian University plays a
vital role in this laudable pursuit by
empowering students of faith to pursue
higher education and a career with ex-
cellence and integrity while remaining
rooted in their religious principles.
FCU focuses on the whole of the stu-
dent, fostering a community that en-
sures the growth and support of its stu-
dents’ academic goals as well as their
spiritual well-being.
I commend the hard work and dedica-
tion of FCU president Bruno
Portigliatti and all those at FCU who
have committed their time and energy
to providing students with a world-
class education over the last 40 years.
Thank you for guiding your commu-
nity and our State in prayer and edu-
cation. May this milestone anniversary
be followed by many more as FCU con-
tinues its great success.∑
f
100TH ANNIVERSARY OF THE TVA
WILSON DAM
∑ Mr. TUBERVILLE. Mr. President, I
rise today to acknowledge a special an-
niversary in Alabama. One hundred
years ago, Wilson Dam began commer-
cial operations. Part of the Tennessee
Valley Authority’s network of hydro-
electric dams, Wilson Dam supports
TVA’s mission of providing low-cost,
reliable power and flood control and

PAGE 40

The dam is a National Historic Land-
mark and an engineering feat. It
stretches nearly a mile—more than
4,500 feet—across the Tennessee River.
The site plays a crucial role in the
movement of goods through our coun-
try. The main lock has a maximum lift
of 100 feet, making it the highest sin-
gle-lift lock east of the Rockies. More
than 3,700 vessels on average and 11.4
million tons of goods pass through Wil-
son’s locks each year.
The associated Wilson Dam Reservoir
includes over 160 miles of shoreline and
covers 15,500 acres, providing ample op-
portunities for recreation. This makes
north Alabama a destination for those
looking to fish, boat, kayak, and enjoy
our beautiful State, driving economic
activity and jobs in Alabama.
In a testament to the role Wilson
Dam plays in the system, TVA is in the
process of extending the life of the
plant for decades. As part of the Hydro
Life Extension Program, TVA is refur-
bishing units to improve dam safety
and increase hydro generation output.
I hope my fellow Alabamians will
join me in celebrating all that Wilson
Dam has done for our State—and our
Region—for 100 years. Here is to the
next 100.∑
f
EXECUTIVE AND OTHER
COMMUNICATIONS
The following communications were
laid before the Senate, together with
accompanying papers, reports, and doc-
uments, and were referred as indicated:
EC–1761. A communication from the Chair-
woman of the National Transportation Safe-
ty Board, transmitting, pursuant to law, the
Board’s revised Fiscal Year 2024 annual re-
port relative to the Notification and Federal
Employee Antidiscrimination and Retalia-
tion Act of 2002 (No FEAR Act); to the Com-
mittee on Commerce, Science, and Transpor-
tation.
EC–1762. A communication from the Man-
ager of Legal Litigation and Support, Fed-
eral Aviation Administration, Department of
Transportation, transmitting, pursuant to
law, the report of a rule entitled ‘‘Airworthi-
ness Directives; The Boeing Company Air-
planes; Amendment 39–23095’’ ((RIN2120–
AA64) (Docket No. FAA–2025–1723)) received
in the Office of the President of the Senate
on September 2, 2025; to the Committee on
Commerce, Science, and Transportation.
EC–1763. A communication from the Man-
ager of Legal Litigation and Support, Fed-
eral Aviation Administration, Department of
Transportation, transmitting, pursuant to
law, the report of a rule entitled ‘‘Amend-
ment of Class D and Class E5 Airspace; Rev-
ocation of Class E4 Airspace, Dover, DE’’
((RIN2120–AA66) (Docket No. FAA–2025–0767))
received in the Office of the President of the
Senate on September 2, 2025; to the Com-
mittee on Commerce, Science, and Transpor-
tation.
EC–1764. A communication from the Man-
ager of Legal Litigation and Support, Fed-
eral Aviation Administration, Department of
Transportation, transmitting, pursuant to

EC–1765. A communication from the Man-
ager of Legal Litigation and Support, Fed-
eral Aviation Administration, Department of
Transportation, transmitting, pursuant to
law, the report of a rule entitled ‘‘Airworthi-
ness Directives; BAE Systems (Operations)
Limited Airplanes; Amendment 39–23101’’
((RIN2120–AA64) (Docket No. FAA–2025–0339))
received in the Office of the President of the
Senate on September 2, 2025; to the Com-
mittee on Commerce, Science, and Transpor-
tation.
EC–1766. A communication from the Man-
ager of Legal Litigation and Support, Fed-
eral Aviation Administration, Department of
Transportation, transmitting, pursuant to
law, the report of a rule entitled ‘‘Airworthi-
ness Directives; Bombardier, Inc., Airplanes;
Amendment 39–23105’’ ((RIN2120–AA64)
(Docket No. FAA–2025–0908)) received in the
Office of the President of the Senate on Sep-
tember 2, 2025; to the Committee on Com-
merce, Science, and Transportation.
EC–1767. A communication from the Man-
ager of Legal Litigation and Support, Fed-
eral Aviation Administration, Department of
Transportation, transmitting, pursuant to
law, the report of a rule entitled ‘‘Airworthi-
ness Directives; BAE SYSTEMS (Operations)
Limited Airplanes; Amendment 39–23100’’
((RIN2120–AA64) (Docket No. FAA–2025–1726))
received in the Office of the President of the
Senate on September 2, 2025; to the Com-
mittee on Commerce, Science, and Transpor-
tation.
EC–1768. A communication from the Man-
ager of Legal Litigation and Support, Fed-
eral Aviation Administration, Department of
Transportation, transmitting, pursuant to
law, the report of a rule entitled ‘‘Airworthi-
ness Directives; Gulfstream Aerospace LP
(Type Certificate Previously Held by Israel
Aircraft Industries, Ltd.) Airplanes; Amend-
ment 39–23091’’ ((RIN2120–AA64) (Docket No.
FAA–2025–0756)) received in the Office of the
President of the Senate on September 2, 2025;
to the Committee on Commerce, Science,
and Transportation.
EC–1769. A communication from the Man-
ager of Legal Litigation and Support, Fed-
eral Aviation Administration, Department of
Transportation, transmitting, pursuant to
law, the report of a rule entitled ‘‘Airworthi-
ness Directives; The Boeing Company Air-
planes; Amendment 39–23096’’ ((RIN2120–
AA64) (Docket No. FAA–2025–1724)) received
in the Office of the President of the Senate
on September 2, 2025; to the Committee on
Commerce, Science, and Transportation.
EC–1770. A communication from the Man-
ager of Legal Litigation and Support, Fed-
eral Aviation Administration, Department of
Transportation, transmitting, pursuant to
law, the report of a rule entitled ‘‘Amend-
ment of Class E Airspace; Lacon, IL’’
((RIN2120–AA66) (Docket No. FAA–2025–1276))
received in the Office of the President of the
Senate on September 2, 2025; to the Com-
mittee on Commerce, Science, and Transpor-
tation.
EC–1771. A communication from the Man-
ager of Legal Litigation and Support, Fed-
eral Aviation Administration, Department of
Transportation, transmitting, pursuant to
law, the report of a rule entitled ‘‘Standard
Instrument Approach Procedures, and Take-
off Minimums and Obstacle Departure Proce-
dures; Miscellaneous Amendments’’
((RIN2120–AA65) (Docket No. 31618)) received
in the Office of the President of the Senate
on September 2, 2025; to the Committee on

Partnership (Type Certificate Previously
Held by C Series Aircraft Limited Partner-
ship (CSALP); Bombardier, Inc.) Airplanes;
Amendment 39–23098’’ ((RIN2120–AA64)
(Docket No. FAA–2024–0454)) received in the
Office of the President of the Senate on Sep-
tember 2, 2025; to the Committee on Com-
merce, Science, and Transportation.
EC–1773. A communication from the Man-
ager of Legal Litigation and Support, Fed-
eral Aviation Administration, Department of
Transportation, transmitting, pursuant to
law, the report of a rule entitled ‘‘Airworthi-
ness Directives; Airbus SAS Airplanes;
Amendment 39–23110’’ ((RIN2120–AA64)
(Docket No. FAA–2025–1733)) received in the
Office of the President of the Senate on Sep-
tember 2, 2025; to the Committee on Com-
merce, Science, and Transportation.
EC–1774. A communication from the Chief
of Staff, Media Bureau, Federal Communica-
tions Commission, transmitting, pursuant to
law, the report of a rule entitled ‘‘Television
Broadcasting Services, Portland, Oregon’’
(MB Docket No. 25–132) received in the Office
of the President of the Senate on September
2, 2025; to the Committee on Commerce,
Science, and Transportation.
EC–1775. A communication from the Chief
of Staff, Media Bureau, Federal Communica-
tions Commission, transmitting, pursuant to
law, the report of a rule entitled ‘‘Television
Broadcasting Services, Henderson, Nevada’’
(MB Docket No. 25–131) received in the Office
of the President of the Senate on September
2, 2025; to the Committee on Commerce,
Science, and Transportation.
EC–1776. A communication from the Super-
visory Program Analyst, Office of General
Counsel, Federal Communications Commis-
sion, transmitting, pursuant to law, the re-
port of a rule entitled ‘‘Delete, Delete, De-
lete Direct Final Rule’’ (FCC 25–40) received
in the Office of the President of the Senate
on September 2, 2025; to the Committee on
Commerce, Science, and Transportation.
EC–1777. A communication from the Dep-
uty Division Chief, Federal Communications
Commission, transmitting, pursuant to law,
the report of a rule entitled ‘‘Delete, Delete,
Delete; Safeguarding and Securing the Open
Internet; Restoring Internet Freedom; Im-
plementation of the Local Competition Pro-
visions in the Telecommunications Act of
1996; Interconnection Between Local Ex-
change Carriers and Commercial Mobile
Radio Service Providers’’ (DA 25–613) re-
ceived in the Office of the President of the
Senate on September 2, 2025; to the Com-
mittee on Commerce, Science, and Transpor-
tation.
EC–1778. A communication from the Super-
visory Program Analyst, Office of Managing
Director, Federal Communications Commis-
sion, transmitting, pursuant to law, the re-
port of a rule entitled ‘‘In the Matter of En-
hancing National Security Through the Auc-
tion of AWS–3 Spectrum Licenses; Applying
New Average Annual Gross Revenue Bench-
marks for Small Business Bidding Credits;
Amendment of the Commission’s Rules with
Regard to Commercial Operations in the
1695–1710 MHz, 1755–1780 MHz, and 2155–2180
MHz Bands’’ (FCC 25–39) received in the Of-
fice of the President of the Senate on Sep-
tember 2, 2025; to the Committee on Com-
merce, Science, and Transportation.
EC–1779. A communication from the Man-
ager of Legal Litigation and Support, Fed-
eral Aviation Administration, Department of
Transportation, transmitting, pursuant to

PAGE 41

Committee on Commerce, Science, and
Transportation.
EC–1780. A communication from the Man-
ager of Legal Litigation and Support, Fed-
eral Aviation Administration, Department of
Transportation, transmitting, pursuant to
law, the report of a rule entitled ‘‘Airworthi-
ness Directives; The Boeing Company Air-
planes; Amendment 39–23094’’ ((RIN2120–
AA64) (Docket No. FAA–2025–1722)) received
in the Office of the President of the Senate
on September 2, 2025; to the Committee on
Commerce, Science, and Transportation.
EC–1781. A communication from the Man-
ager of Legal Litigation and Support, Fed-
eral Aviation Administration, Department of
Transportation, transmitting, pursuant to
law, the report of a rule entitled ‘‘Airworthi-
ness Directives; Dassault Aviation Airplanes;
Amendment 39–23093’’ ((RIN2120–AA64)
(Docket No. FAA–2025–0753)) received in the
Office of the President of the Senate on Sep-
tember 2, 2025; to the Committee on Com-
merce, Science, and Transportation.
EC–1782. A communication from the Man-
ager of Legal Litigation and Support, Fed-
eral Aviation Administration, Department of
Transportation, transmitting, pursuant to
law, the report of a rule entitled ‘‘Airworthi-
ness Directives; Deutsche Aircraft GmbH
(Type Certificate Previously Held by 328
Support Services BmbH; AvCraft Aerospace
GmbH; Fairchild Dornier GmbH; Amendment
39–23092’’ ((RIN2120–AA64) (Docket No. FAA–
2024–2667)) received in the Office of the Presi-
dent of the Senate on September 2, 2025; to
the Committee on Commerce, Science, and
Transportation.
EC–1783. A communication from the Man-
ager of Legal Litigation and Support, Fed-
eral Aviation Administration, Department of
Transportation, transmitting, pursuant to
law, the report of a rule entitled ‘‘Airworthi-
ness Directives; Piaggio Aviation S.p.A. Air-
planes; Amendment 39–23097’’ ((RIN2120–
AA64) (Docket No. FAA–2025–0013)) received
in the Office of the President of the Senate
on September 2, 2025; to the Committee on
Commerce, Science, and Transportation.
EC–1784. A communication from the Man-
ager of Legal Litigation and Support, Fed-
eral Aviation Administration, Department of
Transportation, transmitting, pursuant to
law, the report of a rule entitled ‘‘Airworthi-
ness Directives; Airbus SAS Airplanes;
Amendment 39–23102’’ ((RIN2120–AA64)
(Docket No. FAA–2025–0626)) received in the
Office of the President of the Senate on Sep-
tember 2, 2025; to the Committee on Com-
merce, Science, and Transportation.
EC–1785. A communication from the Super-
visory Program Analyst, Media Bureau, De-
partment of Transportation, transmitting,
pursuant to law, the report of a rule entitled
‘‘Amendment of section 73.202(b), Table of
Allotments, FM Broadcast Stations (Mat-
ador, Texas)’’ (MB Docket No. 25–135) re-
ceived in the Office of the President of the
Senate on September 2, 2025; to the Com-
mittee on Commerce, Science, and Transpor-
tation.
EC–1786. A communication from the Legal
Advisor, Space Bureau, Federal Communica-
tions Commission, transmitting, pursuant to
law, the report of a rule entitled ‘‘Expediting
Initial Processing of Satellite and Earth Sta-
tion Applications and Space Innovation’’
(FCC 25–48) received in the Office of the
President of the Senate on September 2, 2025;
to the Committee on Commerce, Science,
and Transportation.
EC–1787. A communication from the Pro-

EC–1788. A communication from the Attor-
ney Adviser, Federal Railroad Administra-
tion, Department of Transportation, trans-
mitting, pursuant to law, the report of a rule
entitled ‘‘Emergency Escape Breathing Ap-
paratus Standards’’ ((RIN2120–AD01) (Docket
No. FRA–2009–0044)) received in the Office of
the President of the Senate on September 2,
2025; to the Committee on Commerce,
Science, and Transportation.
EC–1789. A communication from the Direc-
tor, Office of Management and Budget, Exec-
utive Office of the President, transmitting,
pursuant to law, a report entitled ‘‘Mid-Ses-
sion Review of the Budget of the U.S. Gov-
ernment for Fiscal Year 2026’’; to the Com-
mittees on Appropriations; and the Budget.
f
REPORTS OF COMMITTEES
The following reports of committees
were submitted:
By Mr. CASSIDY, from the Committee on
Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions,
with an amendment in the nature of a sub-
stitute:
S. 1728. A bill to amend the Employee Re-
tirement Income Security Act of 1974 to ex-
pand the membership of the Advisory Coun-
cil on Employee Welfare and Pension Benefit
Plans to include representatives of employee
ownership organizations.
S. 2403. A bill to amend the Employee Re-
tirement Income Security Act of 1974 to pro-
vide a clear definition of adequate consider-
ation for certain closely held stock, and for
other purposes.
f
EXECUTIVE REPORTS OF
COMMITTEES
The following executive reports of
nominations were submitted:
By Mr. LEE for the Committee on Energy
and Natural Resources.
*Laura Swett, of Virginia, to be a Member
of the Federal Energy Regulatory Commis-
sion for a term expiring June 30, 2030.
*David LaCerte, of Louisiana, to be a Mem-
ber of the Federal Energy Regulatory Com-
mission for the remainder of the term expir-
ing June 30, 2026.
By Mr. GRASSLEY for the Committee on
the Judiciary.
Joshua D. Dunlap, of Maine, to be United
States Circuit Judge for the First Circuit.
Eric Chunyee Tung, of California, to be
United States Circuit Judge for the Ninth
Circuit.
William W. Mercer, of Montana, to be
United States District Judge for the District
of Montana.
Stephen Chad Meredith, of Kentucky, to be
United States District Judge for the Eastern
District of Kentucky.
Arch Capito, of West Virginia, to be United
States Attorney for the Southern District of
West Virginia for the term of four years.
David Dunavant, of Tennessee, to be
United States Attorney for the Western Dis-
trict of Tennessee for the term of four years.
Matthew Harvey, of West Virginia, to be
United States Attorney for the Northern Dis-
trict of West Virginia for the term of four
years.
John Heekin, of Florida, to be United
States Attorney for the Northern District of
Florida for the term of four years.
Leif Olson, of Iowa, to be United States At-
torney for the Northern District of Iowa for

Kurt Alme, of Montana, to be United
States Attorney for the District of Montana,
for the term of four years.
Nicholas Chase, of North Dakota, to be
United States Attorney for the District of
North Dakota for the term of four years.
Bart McKay Davis, of Idaho, to be United
States Attorney for the District of Idaho for
the term of four years.
David Metcalf, of Pennsylvania, to be
United States Attorney for the Eastern Dis-
trict of Pennsylvania for the term of four
years.
Lesley Murphy, of Nebraska, to be United
States Attorney for the District of Nebraska
for the term of four years.
Ronald A. Parsons, Jr., of South Dakota,
to be United States Attorney for the District
of South Dakota for the term of four years.
Kurt Wall, of Louisiana, to be United
States Attorney for the Middle District of
Louisiana for the term of four years.
David Charles Waterman, of Iowa, to be
United States Attorney for the Southern
District of Iowa for the term of four years.
Daniel Rosen, of Florida, to be United
States Attorney for the District of Min-
nesota for the term of four years.
Erik Siebert, of Virginia, to be United
States Attorney for the Eastern District of
Virginia for the term of four years.
*Nomination was reported with rec-
ommendation that it be confirmed sub-
ject to the nominee’s commitment to
respond to requests to appear and tes-
tify before any duly constituted com-
mittee of the Senate.
(Nominations without an asterisk
were reported with the recommenda-
tion that they be confirmed.)
f
INTRODUCTION OF BILLS AND
JOINT RESOLUTIONS
The following bills and joint resolu-
tions were introduced, read the first
and second times by unanimous con-
sent, and referred as indicated:
By Mr. SCHMITT:
S. 2767. A bill to authorize the Secretary of
the Interior to enter into an agreement with
the Gateway Arch Park Foundation to host
private events in Gateway Arch National
Park buildings, and for other purposes; to
the Committee on Energy and Natural Re-
sources.
By Mr. COTTON:
S. 2768. A bill to deny pretrial release for
certain individuals, and for other purposes;
to the Committee on the Judiciary.
By Mr. PAUL:
S. 2769. A bill to repeal title II of the REAL
ID Act of 2005 in order to safeguard civil lib-
erties and individual privacy; to the Com-
mittee on Homeland Security and Govern-
mental Affairs.
By Mr. CORNYN (for himself, Ms.
ROSEN, Mr. TILLIS, and Mr. WELCH):
S. 2770. A bill to amend title XVIII of the
Social Security Act to ensure appropriate
cost-sharing for chronic care drugs under
Medicare part D; to the Committee on Fi-
nance.
By Mr. LUJA´N (for himself, Mr.
MULLIN, Mr. GALLEGO, and Ms.
SMITH):
S. 2771. A bill to amend the Indian Self-De-
termination Act and the Indian Health Care
Improvement Act to provide advance appro-

PAGE 42

By Mr. WARNOCK (for himself and Mr.
MARSHALL):
S. 2772. A bill to authorize the Secretary of
Defense to conduct a pilot program to pro-
vide coupons to junior enlisted members to
purchase food at commissaries; to the Com-
mittee on Armed Services.
By Ms. CORTEZ MASTO (for herself
and Mrs. HYDE-SMITH):
S. 2773. A bill to amend the Internal Rev-
enue Code of 1986 to exempt sports betting
from the tax on authorized wagers; to the
Committee on Finance.
By Mrs. BLACKBURN:
S. 2774. A bill to restrict certain Federal
grants for States that grant driver licenses
to illegal immigrants and fail to share infor-
mation about criminal aliens with the Fed-
eral Government; to the Committee on the
Judiciary.
By Mr. WELCH (for himself, Mr. MAR-
KEY, Mr. VAN HOLLEN, Ms.
ALSOBROOKS, Mr. MERKLEY, Mr.
BLUMENTHAL, Mr. REED, Mr. WHITE-
HOUSE, Mr. BENNET, Mr. BOOKER, Ms.
SMITH, Mr. SANDERS, Mr. WYDEN, and
Mr. HEINRICH):
S. 2775. A bill to require the Administrator
of the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Ad-
ministration to establish and maintain a
database and webpage that is available to
the public and contains information on the
billion-dollar disasters that occur each year
in the United States, and for other purposes;
to the Committee on Commerce, Science,
and Transportation.
By Mr. FETTERMAN (for himself and
Mr. MCCORMICK):
S. 2776. A bill to amend the Justice for
United States Victims of State Sponsored
Terrorism Act to provide rules for payments
to Havlish Settling Judgment Creditors; to
the Committee on the Judiciary.
By Mr. MARKEY (for himself, Mr.
BLUMENTHAL, Ms. HIRONO, Ms.
ALSOBROOKS, Mr. WARNER, Mr.
HICKENLOOPER, Mr. KELLY, Mr. SCHU-
MER, Mrs. GILLIBRAND, Mr. HEINRICH,
and Mrs. SHAHEEN):
S. 2777. A bill to exempt small business
concerns from duties imposed pursuant to
the national emergency declared on April 2,
2025, by the President and to refund small
business concerns the amount of any such
duties paid; to the Committee on Finance.
By Mr. WYDEN (for himself, Mr.
WELCH, and Mr. BENNET):
S. 2778. A bill to amend the Richard B. Rus-
sell National School Lunch Act to establish
a program for the procurement of domesti-
cally grown unprocessed fruits and vegeta-
bles to provide healthier school meals, and
for other purposes; to the Committee on Ag-
riculture, Nutrition, and Forestry.
By Mr. GALLEGO (for himself, Mr.
WYDEN, Mr. FETTERMAN, Mrs. GILLI-
BRAND, Mr. VAN HOLLEN, Mr.
BLUMENTHAL, Mr. BOOKER, Mr.
MERKLEY, Mr. SCHATZ, and Ms. BALD-
WIN):
S. 2779. A bill to amend the Internal Rev-
enue Code of 1986 to exclude strike benefits
from gross income; to the Committee on Fi-
nance.
By Mr. GALLEGO:
S. 2780. A bill to clarify the treatment of
certain tips for purposes of the tax deduction
for qualified tips; to the Committee on Fi-
nance.
By Mr. DURBIN (for himself, Mr.
BLUMENTHAL, and Mr. WHITEHOUSE):

encourage student participation in local gov-
ernment and volunteer service, and for other
purposes; to the Committee on Health, Edu-
cation, Labor, and Pensions.
By Mr. KIM:
S. 2783. A bill to provide a direct appropria-
tion of funds for the Learn and Serve Amer-
ica program of the Corporation for National
and Community Service and to expand the
eligibility of such program to additional en-
tities; to the Committee on Health, Edu-
cation, Labor, and Pensions.
By Mr. BLUMENTHAL (for himself,
Ms. COLLINS, Mr. SCHUMER, Mr. MUR-
PHY, Mrs. GILLIBRAND, Mr. KING, Mrs.
SHAHEEN, Mr. PADILLA, Mr.
FETTERMAN, Ms. HIRONO, Mr. DURBIN,
Mr. BOOKER, Ms. BALDWIN, Mr.
WHITEHOUSE, Mr. MERKLEY, Ms.
ALSOBROOKS, Mr. SCHATZ, Ms. KLO-
BUCHAR, Ms. CORTEZ MASTO, Mr.
REED, Mr. COONS, Ms. BLUNT ROCH-
ESTER, Mr. LUJA´N, Mr. WYDEN, Mr.
MARKEY, Mr. VANHOLLEN, Mrs. MUR-
RAY, Mr. WELCH, and Mr. HEINRICH):
S. 2784. A bill to award posthumously the
Congressional Gold Medal to Constance
Baker Motley, in recognition of her enduring
contributions and service to the United
States; to the Committee on Banking, Hous-
ing, and Urban Affairs.
By Mr. KIM:
S. 2785. A bill to expand the financial,
health care, and educational benefits re-
ceived by Peace Corps and AmeriCorps vol-
unteers, and for other purposes; to the Com-
mittee on Finance.
By Mr. KIM:
S. 2786. A bill to expand the opportunities
of recent graduates for employment in Exec-
utive agencies, and for other purposes; to the
Committee on Finance.
By Mr. BARRASSO (for himself and
Ms. LUMMIS):
S. 2787. A bill to amend the Federal Land
Policy and Management Act of 1976 to ensure
that ranchers who have grazing agreements
on national grasslands are treated the same
as permittees on other Federal land; to the
Committee on Energy and Natural Re-
sources.
By Mr. SHEEHY:
S. 2788. A bill to prohibit the Secretary of
Transportation from establishing new per-
formance measures or regulatory or program
requirements relating to highway safety
grant programs, to require the Secretary of
Transportation to ease certain requirements
relating to those programs, and for other
purposes; to the Committee on Commerce,
Science, and Transportation.
By Mr. SHEEHY:
S. 2789. A bill to amend title 23, United
States Code, to modify the percentage of
highway safety program funds required to be
spent by political subdivisions, and for other
purposes; to the Committee on Environment
and Public Works.
By Mr. HUSTED (for himself and Mr.
MARSHALL):
S. 2790. A bill to amend the Internal Rev-
enue Code of 1986 to establish the retreaded
tire credit, to require Federal agencies to
consider the use of retreaded tires, and for
other purposes; to the Committee on Fi-
nance.
By Mr. BENNET (for himself and Ms.
COLLINS):
S. 2791. A bill to amend the Internal Rev-
enue Code of 1986 to allow early childhood
educators to take the educator expense de-

mental nutrition assistance program bene-
fits be calculated using the value of the low-
cost food plan, and for other purposes; to the
Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition, and
Forestry.
By Mr. CASSIDY (for himself and Mr.
LUJA´N):
S. 2793. A bill to amend title XVIII of the
Social Security Act to require Medicare Ad-
vantage plans to cover items and services
furnished by certain essential community
providers within a service area, and for other
purposes; to the Committee on Finance.
By Ms. ERNST (for herself, Mrs.
BLACKBURN, and Mr. LEE):
S. 2794. A bill to require the heads of agen-
cies to establish a policy with respect to the
deactivation of charge cards of employees
separating from the agency, and for other
purposes; to the Committee on Homeland Se-
curity and Governmental Affairs.
By Mr. MARKEY (for himself and Mr.
BLUMENTHAL):
S. 2795. A bill to amend title 49, United
States Code, to ensure that revenues col-
lected from passengers as aviation security
fees are used to help finance the costs of
aviation security screening by repealing a
requirement that a portion of such fees be
credited as offsetting receipts and deposited
in the general fund of the Treasury; to the
Committee on Commerce, Science, and
Transportation.
By Mr. PADILLA (for himself and Mr.
SCHIFF):
S. 2796. A bill to provide for a land ex-
change in San Bernardino County, Cali-
fornia, and for other purposes; to the Com-
mittee on Indian Affairs.
f
SUBMISSION OF CONCURRENT AND
SENATE RESOLUTIONS
The following concurrent resolutions
and Senate resolutions were read, and
referred (or acted upon), as indicated:
By Mr. LANKFORD:
S. Res. 384. A resolution authorizing the
Majority Leader to move to proceed to the
en bloc consideration of certain nomina-
tions; to the Committee on Rules and Ad-
ministration.
By Mr. TILLIS (for himself, Mr. MUR-
PHY, Mr. JUSTICE, Mrs. CAPITO, Mr.
BUDD, and Mr. REED):
S. Res. 385. A resolution recognizing sui-
cide as a serious public health problem and
expressing support for the designation of
September as ‘‘National Suicide Prevention
Month’’; to the Committee on Health, Edu-
cation, Labor, and Pensions.
f
ADDITIONAL COSPONSORS
S. 329
At the request of Mrs. SHAHEEN, the
name of the Senator from Georgia (Mr.
OSSOFF) was added as a cosponsor of S.
329, a bill to authorize grants to imple-
ment school-community partnerships
for preventing substance use and mis-
use among youth.
S. 342
At the request of Mrs. MURRAY, the
names of the Senator from Georgia
(Mr. OSSOFF) and the Senator from
North Dakota (Mr. HOEVEN) were added

PAGE 43

S. 418
At the request of Mr. BANKS, the
name of the Senator from Florida (Mr.
SCOTT) was added as a cosponsor of S.
418, a bill to prohibit contracts between
certain foreign entities and institu-
tions of higher education conducting
Department of Defense-funded research
and to impose post-employment re-
strictions for participants in certain
research funded by the Department,
and for other purposes.
S. 554
At the request of Mr. SULLIVAN, the
name of the Senator from Texas (Mr.
CORNYN) was added as a cosponsor of S.
554, a bill to enhance bilateral defense
cooperation between the United States
and Israel, and for other purposes.
S. 929
At the request of Mr. COTTON, the
name of the Senator from Florida (Mr.
SCOTT) was added as a cosponsor of S.
929, a bill to prohibit National Labora-
tories from admitting certain foreign
nationals, and for other purposes.
S. 1021
At the request of Ms. KLOBUCHAR, the
names of the Senator from Pennsyl-
vania (Mr. FETTERMAN) and the Sen-
ator from Vermont (Mr. WELCH) were
added as cosponsors of S. 1021, a bill to
amend the Food and Nutrition Act of
2008 to establish a dairy nutrition in-
centive program, and for other pur-
poses.
S. 1173
At the request of Mr. CASSIDY, the
name of the Senator from Kansas (Mr.
MARSHALL) was added as a cosponsor of
S. 1173, a bill to amend title XVIII of
the Social Security Act to clarify and
preserve the breadth of the protections
under the Medicare Secondary Payer
Act.
S. 1435
At the request of Ms. ERNST, the
name of the Senator from Florida (Mr.
SCOTT) was added as a cosponsor of S.
1435, a bill to prohibit the use of tax-
payer dollars to support animal experi-
mentation in the laboratories of adver-
sarial nations.
S. 1448
At the request of Ms. HIRONO, the
name of the Senator from New Jersey
(Mr. KIM) was added as a cosponsor of
S. 1448, a bill to address mental health
issues for youth, particularly youth of
color, and for other purposes.
S. 1532
At the request of Mr. CRAPO, the
name of the Senator from South Da-
kota (Mr. ROUNDS) was added as a co-
sponsor of S. 1532, a bill to amend the
Internal Revenue Code of 1986 to mod-
ify the railroad track maintenance
credit.
S. 1686
At the request of Mr. YOUNG, the

S. 1705
At the request of Mr. COTTON, the
name of the Senator from Indiana (Mr.
BANKS) was added as a cosponsor of S.
1705, a bill to require the Secretary of
Commerce to issue standards with re-
spect to chip security mechanisms for
integrated circuit products, and for
other purposes.
S. 1880
At the request of Ms. SMITH, the
name of the Senator from Virginia (Mr.
WARNER) was added as a cosponsor of S.
1880, a bill to amend the Community
Development Banking and Financial
Institutions Act of 1994 to reauthorize
and improve the community develop-
ment financial institutions bond guar-
antee program, and for other purposes.
S. 1930
At the request of Mr. CASSIDY, the
name of the Senator from Kansas (Mr.
MARSHALL) was added as a cosponsor of
S. 1930, a bill to amend title XI of the
Social Security Act to establish a re-
search and development-intensive
small biotech manufacturer exemption
from the Medicare drug price negotia-
tion program.
S. 2126
At the request of Mr. WICKER, the
name of the Senator from Wisconsin
(Ms. BALDWIN) was added as a cospon-
sor of S. 2126, a bill to reauthorize the
Integrated Coastal and Ocean Observa-
tion System Act of 2009, and for other
purposes.
S. 2225
At the request of Mr. LUJA´N, the
name of the Senator from Louisiana
(Mr. CASSIDY) was added as a cosponsor
of S. 2225, a bill to amend title XVIII of
the Social Security Act to add physical
therapists to the list of providers al-
lowed to utilize locum tenens arrange-
ments under Medicare.
S. 2252
At the request of Mrs. SHAHEEN, the
name of the Senator from Maine (Ms.
COLLINS) was added as a cosponsor of S.
2252, a bill to require United States for-
eign assistance commodities to be
made available for their intended pur-
poses before they expire.
S. 2282
At the request of Ms. BALDWIN, the
name of the Senator from Georgia (Mr.
OSSOFF) was added as a cosponsor of S.
2282, a bill to amend the Food, Con-
servation, and Energy Act of 2008 to re-
authorize the Farm and Ranch Stress
Assistance Network, and for other pur-
poses.
S. 2287
At the request of Ms. BALDWIN, the
names of the Senator from California
(Mr. SCHIFF) and the Senator from
West Virginia (Mr. JUSTICE) were added
as cosponsors of S. 2287, a bill to amend

cation programs, to promote education
and research in palliative care and hos-
pice, and to support the development of
faculty careers in academic palliative
and hospice care.
S. 2418
At the request of Mr. COTTON, the
name of the Senator from Arkansas
(Mr. BOOZMAN) was added as a cospon-
sor of S. 2418, a bill to amend the Fam-
ily and Medical Leave Act of 1993 to
provide leave for the spontaneous loss
of an unborn child, and for other pur-
poses.
S. 2511
At the request of Mr. CASSIDY, the
name of the Senator from Ohio (Mr.
HUSTED) was added as a cosponsor of S.
2511, a bill to establish a postsecondary
student data system.
S. 2611
At the request of Mrs. SHAHEEN, the
name of the Senator from California
(Mr. SCHIFF) was added as a cosponsor
of S. 2611, a bill to safeguard the integ-
rity of the Department of State’s an-
nual Country Reports on Human
Rights Practices, and for other pur-
poses.
S. 2688
At the request of Mr. VAN HOLLEN,
the name of the Senator from Oregon
(Mr. MERKLEY) was added as a cospon-
sor of S. 2688, a bill to extend to the
Mayor of the District of Columbia the
same authority over the National
Guard of the District of Columbia as
the Governors of the several States ex-
ercise over the National Guard of those
States with respect to administration
of the National Guard and its use to re-
spond to natural disasters and other
civil disturbances, and for other pur-
poses.
S. 2689
At the request of Mr. VAN HOLLEN,
the names of the Senator from Oregon
(Mr. MERKLEY) and the Senator from
Illinois (Mr. DURBIN) were added as co-
sponsors of S. 2689, a bill to amend the
District of Columbia Home Rule Act to
repeal the authority of the President
to assume emergency control of the po-
lice of the District of Columbia.
S.J. RES. 75
At the request of Mr. VAN HOLLEN,
the names of the Senator from Illinois
(Mr. DURBIN) and the Senator from Or-
egon (Mr. MERKLEY) were added as co-
sponsors of S.J. Res. 75, a joint resolu-
tion terminating the emergency deter-
mined by the President on August 11,
2025, in the Executive Order titled ‘‘De-
claring a crime emergency in the Dis-
trict of Columbia’’.
AMENDMENTNO. 2968
At the request of Mr. BLUMENTHAL,
the names of the Senator from Dela-
ware (Mr. COONS), the Senator from Or-
egon (Mr. WYDEN) and the Senator

PAGE 44

for defense activities of the Depart-
ment of Energy, to prescribe military
personnel strengths for such fiscal
year, and for other purposes.
AMENDMENTNO. 3177
At the request of Mr. PADILLA, the
name of the Senator from Montana
(Mr. SHEEHY) was added as a cosponsor
of amendment No. 3177 intended to be
proposed to S. 2296, an original bill to
authorize appropriations for fiscal year
2026 for military activities of the De-
partment of Defense, for military con-
struction, and for defense activities of
the Department of Energy, to prescribe
military personnel strengths for such
fiscal year, and for other purposes.
AMENDMENTNO. 3210
At the request of Ms. DUCKWORTH,
the names of the Senator from Wis-
consin (Ms. BALDWIN) and the Senator
from Minnesota (Ms. SMITH) were added
as cosponsors of amendment No. 3210
intended to be proposed to S. 2296, an
original bill to authorize appropria-
tions for fiscal year 2026 for military
activities of the Department of De-
fense, for military construction, and
for defense activities of the Depart-
ment of Energy, to prescribe military
personnel strengths for such fiscal
year, and for other purposes.
AMENDMENTNO. 3330
At the request of Mr. SCHIFF, the
name of the Senator from Wisconsin
(Ms. BALDWIN) was added as a cospon-
sor of amendment No. 3330 intended to
be proposed to S. 2296, an original bill
to authorize appropriations for fiscal
year 2026 for military activities of the
Department of Defense, for military
construction, and for defense activities
of the Department of Energy, to pre-
scribe military personnel strengths for
such fiscal year, and for other pur-
poses.
AMENDMENTNO. 3419
At the request of Mr. HUSTED, the
name of the Senator from Rhode Island
(Mr. WHITEHOUSE) was added as a co-
sponsor of amendment No. 3419 in-
tended to be proposed to S. 2296, an
original bill to authorize appropria-
tions for fiscal year 2026 for military
activities of the Department of De-
fense, for military construction, and
for defense activities of the Depart-
ment of Energy, to prescribe military
personnel strengths for such fiscal
year, and for other purposes.
AMENDMENTNO. 3592
At the request of Mr. WELCH, the
name of the Senator from Arizona (Mr.
GALLEGO) was added as a cosponsor of
amendment No. 3592 intended to be pro-
posed to S. 2296, an original bill to au-
thorize appropriations for fiscal year
2026 for military activities of the De-
partment of Defense, for military con-
struction, and for defense activities of
the Department of Energy, to prescribe

sor of amendment No. 3744 intended to
be proposed to S. 2296, an original bill
to authorize appropriations for fiscal
year 2026 for military activities of the
Department of Defense, for military
construction, and for defense activities
of the Department of Energy, to pre-
scribe military personnel strengths for
such fiscal year, and for other pur-
poses.
AMENDMENTNO. 3762
At the request of Mrs. SHAHEEN, the
name of the Senator from Wisconsin
(Ms. BALDWIN) was added as a cospon-
sor of amendment No. 3762 intended to
be proposed to S. 2296, an original bill
to authorize appropriations for fiscal
year 2026 for military activities of the
Department of Defense, for military
construction, and for defense activities
of the Department of Energy, to pre-
scribe military personnel strengths for
such fiscal year, and for other pur-
poses.
AMENDMENTNO. 3788
At the request of Mr. RICKETTS, the
name of the Senator from Colorado
(Mr. BENNET) was added as a cosponsor
of amendment No. 3788 intended to be
proposed to S. 2296, an original bill to
authorize appropriations for fiscal year
2026 for military activities of the De-
partment of Defense, for military con-
struction, and for defense activities of
the Department of Energy, to prescribe
military personnel strengths for such
fiscal year, and for other purposes.
AMENDMENTNO. 3825
At the request of Mr. DURBIN, the
name of the Senator from Maryland
(Mr. VAN HOLLEN) was added as a co-
sponsor of amendment No. 3825 in-
tended to be proposed to S. 2296, an
original bill to authorize appropria-
tions for fiscal year 2026 for military
activities of the Department of De-
fense, for military construction, and
for defense activities of the Depart-
ment of Energy, to prescribe military
personnel strengths for such fiscal
year, and for other purposes.
AMENDMENTNO. 3871
At the request of Mrs. MOODY, the
name of the Senator from Arkansas
(Mr. COTTON) was added as a cosponsor
of amendment No. 3871 intended to be
proposed to S. 2296, an original bill to
authorize appropriations for fiscal year
2026 for military activities of the De-
partment of Defense, for military con-
struction, and for defense activities of
the Department of Energy, to prescribe
military personnel strengths for such
fiscal year, and for other purposes.
f
STATEMENTS ON INTRODUCED
BILLS AND JOINT RESOLUTIONS
By Mr. DURBIN (for himself, Mr.

Mr. DURBIN. Mr. President, I ask
unanimous consent that the text of the
bill be printed in the RECORD.
There being no objection, the text of
the bill was ordered to be printed in
the RECORD, as follows:
S. 2781
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Rep-
resentatives of the United States of America in
Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.
This Act may be cited as the ‘‘Protecting
Consumers from Unreasonable Credit Rates
Act of 2025’’.
SEC. 2. FINDINGS.
Congress finds that—
(1) attempts have been made to prohibit
usurious interest rates in America since co-
lonial times;
(2) at the Federal level, in 2006, Congress
enacted a Federal 36-percent annualized
usury cap for servicemembers and their fam-
ilies for covered credit products, as defined
by the Department of Defense, which curbed
payday, car title, and tax refund lending
around military bases;
(3) notwithstanding such attempts to curb
predatory lending, high-cost lending persists
in all 50 States due to loopholes in State
laws, safe harbor laws for specific forms of
credit, and the exportation of unregulated
interest rates permitted by preemption;
(4) due to the lack of a comprehensive Fed-
eral usury cap, consumers have paid as much
as approximately $12,000,000,000 on high-cost
overdraft loans, $8,600,000,000 on storefront
and online payday loans, $3,800,000,000 on car
title loans, and additional amounts in unre-
ported revenues on high-cost online install-
ment loans;
(5) cash-strapped consumers pay on aver-
age approximately 400-percent annual inter-
est for payday loans, 300-percent annual in-
terest for car title loans, 17,000 percent for
bank overdraft loans, and triple-digit rates
for online installment loans;
(6) a national maximum interest rate that
includes all forms of fees and closes all loop-
holes is necessary to eliminate such preda-
tory lending; and
(7) alternatives to predatory lending that
encourage small dollar loans with minimal
or no fees, installment payment schedules,
and affordable repayment periods should be
encouraged.
SEC. 3. NATIONAL MAXIMUM INTEREST RATE.
Chapter 2 of the Truth in Lending Act (15
U.S.C. 1631 et seq.) is amended by adding at
the end the following:
‘‘SEC. 140B. MAXIMUM RATES OF INTEREST.
‘‘(a) IN GENERAL.—Notwithstanding any
other provision of law, no creditor may make
an extension of credit to a consumer with re-
spect to which the fee and interest rate, as
defined in subsection (b), exceeds 36 percent.
‘‘(b) FEEANDINTERESTRATEDEFINED.—
‘‘(1) INGENERAL.—For purposes of this sec-
tion, the fee and interest rate includes all
charges payable, directly or indirectly, inci-
dent to, ancillary to, or as a condition of the
extension of credit, including—
‘‘(A) any payment compensating a creditor
or prospective creditor for—
‘‘(i) an extension of credit or making avail-
able a line of credit, such as fees connected
with credit extension or availability such as
numerical periodic rates, annual fees, cash
advance fees, and membership fees; or
‘‘(ii) any fees for default or breach by a

PAGE 45

‘‘(C) credit insurance premiums, whether
optional or required;
‘‘(D) all charges and costs for ancillary
products or optional services offered in con-
nection with or incidental to the credit
transaction; and
‘‘(E) any costs payable in connection with
products that involve—
‘‘(i) the provision of funds to the consumer
in an amount that is based, by estimate or
otherwise, on the wages that the consumer
has accrued in a given pay cycle; and
‘‘(ii) repayment to the third-party provider
via automatic means at or after the end of
the pay cycle.
‘‘(2) TOLERANCES.—
‘‘(A) INGENERAL.—With respect to a credit
obligation that is payable in at least 3 fully
amortizing installments over at least 90
days, the term ‘fee and interest rate’ does
not include—
‘‘(i) application or participation fees that
in total do not exceed the greater of $30 or,
if there is a limit to the credit line, 5 percent
of the credit limit, up to $120, if—
‘‘(I) such fees are excludable from the fi-
nance charge pursuant to section 106 and
regulations issued thereunder;
‘‘(II) such fees cover all credit extended or
renewed by the creditor for 12 months; and
‘‘(III) the minimum amount of credit ex-
tended or available on a credit line is equal
to $300 or more;
‘‘(ii) a late fee charged as authorized by
State law and by the agreement that does
not exceed either $8 per late payment or $8
per month; or
‘‘(iii) a creditor-imposed insufficient funds
fee charged when a borrower tenders pay-
ment on a debt with a check drawn on insuf-
ficient funds that does not exceed $15.
‘‘(B) ADJUSTMENTS FOR INFLATION.—The
Bureau may adjust the amounts of the toler-
ances established under this paragraph for
inflation over time, consistent with the pri-
mary goals of protecting consumers and en-
suring that the 36-percent fee and interest
rate limitation is not circumvented.
‘‘(c) CALCULATIONS.—
‘‘(1) OPEN END CREDIT PLANS.—For an open
end credit plan—
‘‘(A) the fee and interest rate shall be cal-
culated each month, based upon the sum of
all fees and finance charges described in sub-
section (b) charged by the creditor during
the preceding 1-year period, divided by the
average daily balance; and
‘‘(B) if the credit account has been open
less than 1 year, the fee and interest rate
shall be calculated based upon the total of
all fees and finance charges described in sub-
section (b)(1) charged by the creditor since
the plan was opened, divided by the average
daily balance, and multiplied by the
quotient of 12 divided by the number of full
months that the credit plan has been in ex-
istence.
‘‘(2) OTHER CREDIT PLANS.—For purposes of
this section, in calculating the fee and inter-
est rate, the Bureau shall require the method
of calculation of annual percentage rate
specified in section 107(a)(1), except that the
amount referred to in that section 107(a)(1)
as the ‘finance charge’ shall include all fees,
charges, and payments described in sub-
section (b)(1) of this section.
‘‘(3) ADJUSTMENTS AUTHORIZED.—The Bu-
reau may make adjustments to the calcula-
tions in paragraphs (1) and (2), but the pri-
mary goals of such adjustment shall be to

‘‘(e) NO EXEMPTIONS PERMITTED.—The ex-
emption authority of the Bureau under sec-
tion 105 shall not apply to the rates estab-
lished under this section or the disclosure re-
quirements under section 127(b)(6).
‘‘(f) DISCLOSUREOFFEEANDINTERESTRATE
FOR CREDIT OTHER THAN OPEN END CREDIT
PLANS.—In addition to the disclosure re-
quirements under section 127(b)(6), the Bu-
reau may prescribe regulations requiring dis-
closure of the fee and interest rate estab-
lished under this section.
‘‘(g) RELATION TO STATE LAW.—Nothing in
this section may be construed to preempt
any provision of State law that provides
greater protection to consumers than is pro-
vided in this section.
‘‘(h) CIVILLIABILITYANDENFORCEMENT.—In
addition to remedies available to the con-
sumer under section 130(a), any payment
compensating a creditor or prospective cred-
itor, to the extent that such payment is a
transaction made in violation of this section,
shall be null and void, and not enforceable by
any party in any court or alternative dispute
resolution forum, and the creditor or any
subsequent holder of the obligation shall
promptly return to the consumer any prin-
cipal, interest, charges, and fees, and any se-
curity interest associated with such trans-
action. Notwithstanding any statute of limi-
tations or repose, a violation of this section
may be raised as a matter of defense by
recoupment or setoff to an action to collect
such debt or repossess related security at
any time.
‘‘(i) VIOLATIONS.—Any person that violates
this section, or seeks to enforce an agree-
ment made in violation of this section, shall
be subject to, for each such violation, 1 year
in prison and a fine in an amount equal to
the greater of—
‘‘(1) three times the amount of the total
accrued debt associated with the subject
transaction; or
‘‘(2) $50,000.
‘‘(j) STATE ATTORNEYS GENERAL.—An ac-
tion to enforce this section may be brought
by the appropriate State attorney general in
any United States district court or any other
court of competent jurisdiction within 3
years from the date of the violation, and
such attorney general may obtain injunctive
relief.’’.
SEC. 4. DISCLOSURE OF FEE AND INTEREST RATE
FOR OPEN END CREDIT PLANS.
Section 127(b)(6) of the Truth in Lending
Act (15 U.S.C. 1637(b)(6)) is amended by strik-
ing ‘‘the total finance charge expressed’’ and
all that follows through the end of the para-
graph and inserting ‘‘the fee and interest
rate, displayed as ‘FAIR’, established under
section 141.’’.
By Mr. BARRASSO (for himself
and Ms. LUMMIS):
S. 2787. A bill to amend the Federal
Land Policy and Management Act of
1976 to ensure that ranchers who have
grazing agreements on national grass-
lands are treated the same as permit-
tees on other Federal land; to the Com-
mittee on Energy and Natural Re-
sources.
Mr. BARRASSO. Mr. President, I ask
unanimous consent that the text of the
bill be printed in the RECORD.
There being no objection, the text of
the bill was ordered to be printed in
the RECORD, as follows:

SEC. 2. ELIGIBILITY OF NATIONAL GRASSLANDS
FOR GRAZING LEASES AND PER-
MITS.
(a) INGENERAL.—Section 402(a) of the Fed-
eral Land Policy and Management Act of
1976 (43 U.S.C. 1752(a)) is amended by striking
‘‘lands within National Forests’’ and insert-
ing ‘‘National Forest System (as defined in
section 11(a) of the Forest and Rangeland Re-
newable Resources Planning Act of 1974 (16
U.S.C. 1609(a))) land’’.
(b) EFFECT.—Nothing in the amendment
made by subsection (a) modifies or affects—
(1) the applicability to national grasslands
of any provision of the Federal Land Policy
and Management Act of 1976 (43 U.S.C. 1701 et
seq.) other than section 402 of that Act (43
U.S.C. 1752);
(2) title III of the Bankhead-Jones Farm
Tenant Act (7 U.S.C. 1010 et seq.); or
(3) section 11 of the Public Rangelands Im-
provement Act of 1978 (43 U.S.C. 1907).
By Mr. PADILLA (for himself and
Mr. SCHIFF):
S. 2796. A bill to provide for a land
exchange in San Bernardino County,
California, and for other purposes; to
the Committee on Indian Affairs.
Mr. PADILLA. Mr. President, I rise
today to introduce the Yuhaaviatam of
San Manuel Nation Land Exchange
Act. This bill would transfer 1.475 acres
of land from the Forest Service to the
Yuhaaviatam of San Manuel Nation in
fee in exchange for 1,460 acres of fee
land the Tribe already owns.
The Yuhaaviatam of San Manuel Na-
tion, formerly known as the San
Manuel Band of Indians, is a federally
recognized Native American Tribe of
Serrano people. Their reservation is lo-
cated in San Bernardino County, CA,
and their people have lived in the San
Bernardino Mountains and surrounding
areas for thousands of years. Today,
the Tribe is known for its strong com-
mitment to cultural preservation and
philanthropy.
For years, the Tribe has been work-
ing toward a land exchange with the
Forest Service, which would enable
them to acquire lands that were once
home to Tribal village known today as
Arrowhead Springs. The Tribe has gone
through the administrative process to
transfer this land, but it has been ex-
pensive and time—consuming. That is
why I am proud to introduce this legis-
lation to facilitate this land transfer
and allow the Tribe to manage their
ancestral lands.
I want to thank Senator SCHIFF for
cosponsoring this legislation, and I
also want to thank Republican Con-
gressman JAY OBERNOLTE for intro-
ducing companion legislation in the
House. I hope my colleagues will join
me in advancing this bill in the Senate.
f
SUBMITTED RESOLUTIONS
SENATE RESOLUTION 384—AU-
THORIZING THE MAJORITY

PAGE 46

to the Committee on Rules and Admin-
istration:
S. RES. 384
Resolved,
SECTION 1. EN BLOC CONSIDERATION OF CER-
TAIN NOMINATIONS.
(a) DEFINITION.—In this section, the term
‘‘covered nomination’’ means a nomination
to a position that is not a position—
(1) at level I of the Executive Schedule
under section 5312 of title 5, United States
Code;
(2) as a judge of a district court of the
United States;
(3) as a judge of a court of appeals of the
United States; or
(4) as Chief Justice of the United States or
as an Associate Justice of the Supreme
Court of the United States.
(b) AUTHORIZATION.—It shall be in order for
the Majority Leader to move to proceed to
the en bloc consideration of not more than 15
covered nominations that were reported to
the Senate by the same committee of the
Senate and placed on the calendar.
(c) CONSIDERATION.—Consideration of a mo-
tion to proceed under subsection (b), and the
en bloc consideration of the nominations
that are the subject of the motion, shall be
conducted in the same manner as if it were
a motion to proceed to the consideration of
a single nomination.
f
SENATE RESOLUTION 385—RECOG-
NIZING SUICIDE AS A SERIOUS
PUBLIC HEALTH PROBLEM AND
EXPRESSING SUPPORT FOR THE
DESIGNATION OF SEPTEMBER AS
‘‘NATIONAL SUICIDE PREVEN-
TION MONTH’’
Mr. TILLIS (for himself, Mr. MUR-
PHY, Mr. JUSTICE, Mrs. CAPITO, Mr.
BUDD, and Mr. REED) submitted the fol-
lowing resolution; which was referred
to the Committee on Health, Edu-
cation, Labor, and Pensions:
S. RES. 385
Whereas suicide is the 11th leading cause of
death in the United States and the second
leading cause of death among individuals be-
tween 10 and 34 years of age;
Whereas, according to the Centers for Dis-
ease Control and Prevention (referred to in
this preamble as the ‘‘CDC’’), 1 individual in
the United States dies by suicide every 11
minutes, resulting in around 49,000 deaths
each year in the United States;
Whereas, according to the Department of
Veterans Affairs, more than 6,400 veterans
die by suicide annually, the equivalent of
nearly 18 veteran suicides per day;
Whereas, between 1999 and 2022, the suicide
rate in the United States increased by 36 per-
cent from 10.5 suicides for every 100,000 indi-
viduals to 14.2 suicides for every 100,000 indi-
viduals;
Whereas it is estimated that there are ap-
proximately 1,500,000 suicide attempts each
year in the United States;
Whereas more than half of individuals who
die by suicide did not have a known mental
health condition;
Whereas, according to the CDC, many fac-
tors contribute to suicide among individuals
with and without known mental health con-
ditions, including challenges related to rela-

Whereas the stigma associated with men-
tal health conditions and suicidality hinders
suicide prevention by discouraging at-risk
individuals from seeking life-saving help and
can further traumatize survivors of suicide
loss and individuals with lived experience of
suicide: Now, therefore, be it
Resolved, That the Senate—
(1) recognizes suicide as a serious and pre-
ventable public health problem of the United
States and each State;
(2) supports the designation of September
as ‘‘National Suicide Prevention Month’’;
(3) declares suicide prevention as a pri-
ority;
(4) acknowledges that no single suicide pre-
vention program or effort will be appropriate
for all populations or communities;
(5) promotes awareness that there is no
single cause of suicide; and
(6) supports strategies to increase access to
high-quality mental health and suicide pre-
vention services and substance-use disorder
treatments.
f
AMENDMENTS SUBMITTED AND
PROPOSED
SA 3873. Ms. BALDWIN (for herself, Mr.
MERKLEY, Ms. HIRONO, Mr. WHITEHOUSE, Mr.
HEINRICH, Mrs. GILLIBRAND, Mrs. MURRAY,
Mr. SCHATZ, Ms. WARREN, Mr. KIM, Mr. MAR-
KEY, Mr. SCHIFF, Mr. FETTERMAN, Ms.
DUCKWORTH, Mr. WYDEN, Mr. BOOKER, Mr.
DURBIN, and Mr. VAN HOLLEN) submitted an
amendment intended to be proposed by her
to the bill S. 2296, to authorize appropria-
tions for fiscal year 2026 for military activi-
ties of the Department of Defense, for mili-
tary construction, and for defense activities
of the Department of Energy, to prescribe
military personnel strengths for such fiscal
year, and for other purposes; which was or-
dered to lie on the table.
SA 3874. Mr. SCHUMER submitted an
amendment intended to be proposed to
amendment SA 3748 proposed by Mr. WICKER
(for himself and Mr. REED) to the bill S. 2296,
supra; which was ordered to lie on the table.
SA 3875. Mr. MERKLEY submitted an
amendment intended to be proposed by him
to the bill S. 2296, supra; which was ordered
to lie on the table.
SA 3876. Ms. CANTWELL submitted an
amendment intended to be proposed by her
to the bill S. 2296, supra; which was ordered
to lie on the table.
SA 3877. Ms. CANTWELL submitted an
amendment intended to be proposed by her
to the bill S. 2296, supra; which was ordered
to lie on the table.
SA 3878. Ms. CANTWELL submitted an
amendment intended to be proposed by her
to the bill S. 2296, supra; which was ordered
to lie on the table.
SA 3879. Ms. CANTWELL submitted an
amendment intended to be proposed by her
to the bill S. 2296, supra; which was ordered
to lie on the table.
SA 3880. Ms. COLLINS (for herself and Ms.
DUCKWORTH) submitted an amendment in-
tended to be proposed to amendment SA 3748
proposed by Mr. WICKER(for himself and Mr.
REED) to the bill S. 2296, supra; which was or-
dered to lie on the table.
SA 3881. Mr. KELLY (for himself, Mr.
SHEEHY, and Mrs. BRITT) submitted an
amendment intended to be proposed to
amendment SA 3748 proposed by Mr. WICKER
(for himself and Mr. REED) to the bill S. 2296,

to the bill S. 2296, supra; which was ordered
to lie on the table.
SA 3884. Mr. BOOKER submitted an
amendment intended to be proposed to
amendment SA 3748 proposed by Mr. WICKER
(for himself and Mr. REED) to the bill S. 2296,
supra; which was ordered to lie on the table.
SA 3885. Mr. BOOKER submitted an
amendment intended to be proposed by him
to the bill S. 2296, supra; which was ordered
to lie on the table.
SA 3886. Mr. MCCORMICK submitted an
amendment intended to be proposed by him
to the bill S. 2296, supra; which was ordered
to lie on the table.
SA 3887. Mr. BOOKER submitted an
amendment intended to be proposed by him
to the bill S. 2296, supra; which was ordered
to lie on the table.
f
TEXT OF AMENDMENTS
SA 3873. Ms. BALDWIN (for herself,
Mr. MERKLEY, Ms. HIRONO, Mr. WHITE-
HOUSE, Mr. HEINRICH, Mrs. GILLIBRAND,
Mrs. MURRAY, Mr. SCHATZ, Ms. WAR-
REN, Mr. KIM, Mr. MARKEY, Mr. SCHIFF,
Mr. FETTERMAN, Ms. DUCKWORTH, Mr.
WYDEN, Mr. BOOKER, Mr. DURBIN, and
Mr. VAN HOLLEN) submitted an amend-
ment intended to be proposed by her to
the bill S. 2296, to authorize appropria-
tions for fiscal year 2026 for military
activities of the Department of De-
fense, for military construction, and
for defense activities of the Depart-
ment of Energy, to prescribe military
personnel strengths for such fiscal
year, and for other purposes; which was
ordered to lie on the table; as follows:
Strike section 706.
SA 3874. Mr. SCHUMER submitted an
amendment intended to be proposed to
amendment SA 3748 proposed by Mr.
WICKER (for himself and Mr. REED) to
the bill S. 2296, to authorize appropria-
tions for fiscal year 2026 for military
activities of the Department of De-
fense, for military construction, and
for defense activities of the Depart-
ment of Energy, to prescribe military
personnel strengths for such fiscal
year, and for other purposes; which was
ordered to lie on the table; as follows:
At the end of subtitle E of title III, add the
following:
SEC. 350. PROHIBITION ON DISPLAY OF NAME,
IMAGE, OR LIKENESS OF PRESIDENT
ON EXTERIOR OF PROPERTY OF DE-
PARTMENT OF DEFENSE OR NA-
TIONAL NUCLEAR SECURITY ADMIN-
ISTRATION.
(a) IN GENERAL.—Notwithstanding any
other provision of law, and except as pro-
vided in subsection (b), no property leased,
owned, or furnished by the Department of
Defense or the National Nuclear Security
Administration shall hang or install any ex-
terior signage or banner detailing any name,
photo, or likeness of the sitting President.
(b) EXCEPTION.—The prohibition under sub-
section (a) does not apply to any signage re-
lating to directories, directional and warning
stanchions, security equipment signage,
temporary sign systems, entrance door

PAGE 47

him to the bill S. 2296, to authorize ap-
propriations for fiscal year 2026 for
military activities of the Department
of Defense, for military construction,
and for defense activities of the De-
partment of Energy, to prescribe mili-
tary personnel strengths for such fiscal
year, and for other purposes; which was
ordered to lie on the table; as follows:
At the end of subtitle D of title XII, add
the following:
SEC. 1248. DENIAL OF ENTRY INTO THE UNITED
STATES OF CURRENT OR FORMER
OFFICIALS ENGAGED IN FORCED RE-
PATRIATION OF UYGHURS AND
MEMBERS OF OTHER ETHNIC AND
RELIGIOUS GROUPS TO THE PEO-
PLE’S REPUBLIC OF CHINA.
(a) INELIGIBILITY FOR VISAS, ADMISSION, OR
PAROLE.—
(1) VISAS, ADMISSION, OR PAROLE.—An offi-
cial described in subsection (b) is—
(A) inadmissible to the United States;
(B) ineligible to receive a visa or other doc-
umentation to enter the United States; and
(C) otherwise ineligible to be admitted or
paroled into the United States or to receive
any other benefit under the Immigration and
Nationality Act (8 U.S.C. 1101 et seq.).
(2) CURRENTVISASREVOKED.—
(A) INGENERAL.—The issuing consular offi-
cer, the Secretary of State, or the Secretary
of Homeland Security (or a designee of one of
such Secretaries) shall, in accordance with
section 221(i) of the Immigration and Nation-
ality Act (8 U.S.C. 1201(i)), revoke any visa or
other entry documentation issued to an offi-
cial described in subsection (b) regardless of
when the visa or other entry documentation
is or was issued.
(B) IMMEDIATE EFFECT.—A visa revocation
under subparagraph (A) shall—
(i) take effect immediately; and
(ii) automatically cancel any other valid
visa or entry documentation that is in the
official’s possession.
(b) OFFICIALS DESCRIBED.—A official de-
scribed in this subsection is any current or
former official of the government of a for-
eign country who the Secretary of State de-
termines is or was responsible for, or
complicit in, the forced departure from the
country of last habitual residence and return
to the People’s Republic of China of—
(1) any Uyghur individual; or
(2) any individual who—
(A) is a member of any other ethnic or reli-
gious group; and
(B) is more likely than not to be subject to
persecution by the Government of the Peo-
ple’s Republic of China.
(c) EXCEPTION TO COMPLY WITH INTER-
NATIONAL OBLIGATIONS.—Sanctions under
this section shall not apply with respect to
the admission of an alien if admitting or pa-
roling the alien into the United States is
necessary to permit the United States to
comply with the Agreement regarding the
Headquarters of the United Nations, signed
at Lake Success June 26, 1947, and entered
into force November 21, 1947, between the
United Nations and the United States, or
other applicable international obligations.
(d) WAIVER.—The Secretary of State may
waive the application of subsection (a) with
respect to an official described in subsection
(b) if the Secretary determines that—
(1) such a waiver is in the national interest
of the United States; or
(2) the circumstances that caused the offi-
cial to be subject to subsection (a) have

(2) PENALTIES.—The penalties provided for
in subsections (b) and (c) of section 206 of the
International Emergency Economic Powers
Act (50 U.S.C. 1705) shall apply to a foreign
person that violates, attempts to violate,
conspires to violate, or causes a violation of
subsection (a) to the same extent that such
penalties apply to a person that commits an
unlawful act described in subsection (a) of
such section 206.
(f) REPORTREQUIRED.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Not later than 90 days
after the date of the enactment of this Act,
and every 180 days thereafter until the ter-
mination date specified in subsection (g), the
Secretary shall submit to the appropriate
committees of Congress a report that in-
cludes, for the covered period—
(A) information on each official deter-
mined to be subject to subsection (a); and
(B) a list of waivers granted under sub-
section (d) and a justification for each such
waiver.
(2) FORM.—Each report submitted under
this subsection shall be submitted in unclas-
sified form but may include a classified
annex.
(3) DEFINITIONS.—In this subsection:
(A) APPROPRIATE COMMITTEES OF CON-
GRESS.—The term ‘‘appropriate committees
of Congress’’ means—
(i) the Committee on Foreign Relations
and the Committee on the Judiciary of the
Senate; and
(ii) the Committee on Foreign Affairs and
the Committee on the Judiciary of the House
of Representatives.
(B) COVERED PERIOD.—The term ‘‘covered
period’’, with respect to a report required by
paragraph (1), means—
(i) in the case of the first such report, the
period beginning on the date of the enact-
ment of this Act and ending on the date on
which the report is submitted; and
(ii) in the case of any subsequent such re-
port, the period beginning on the date on
which the preceding such report was sub-
mitted and ending on the date on which the
subsequent report is submitted.
(g) TERMINATION.—This section shall termi-
nate on the date that is 5 years after the
date of the enactment of this Act.
(h) DEFINITIONS.—In this section:
(1) ADMISSION; ADMITTED; ALIEN; ETC.—The
terms ‘‘admission’’, ‘‘admitted’’, ‘‘alien’’,
‘‘lawfully admitted for permanent resi-
dence’’, and ‘‘national’’ have the meanings
given those terms in section 101 of the Immi-
gration and Nationality Act (8 U.S.C. 1101).
(2) FOREIGN PERSON.—The term ‘‘foreign
person’’ means an individual or entity that
is not a United States person.
(3) UNITED STATES PERSON.—The term
‘‘United States person’’ means—
(A) a United States citizen or an alien law-
fully admitted for permanent residence to
the United States;
(B) an entity organized under the laws of
the United States or any jurisdiction within
the United States, including a foreign branch
of such an entity; or
(C) any person in the United States.
SA 3876. Ms. CANTWELL submitted
an amendment intended to be proposed
by her to the bill S. 2296, to authorize
appropriations for fiscal year 2026 for
military activities of the Department
of Defense, for military construction,

SEC. lll. SPECTRUM AUCTIONS.
Section 40002(b)(2) of the Act entitled ‘‘An
Act to provide for reconciliation pursuant to
title II of H. Con. Res. 14’’, approved July 3,
2025 (Public Law 119–21), is amended by strik-
ing ‘‘, including by completing a system of
competitive bidding not later than 2 years
after the date of enactment of this Act for
not less than 100 megahertz in the band be-
tween 3.98 gigahertz and 4.2 gigahertz’’.
SA 3877. Ms. CANTWELL submitted
an amendment intended to be proposed
by her to the bill S. 2296, to authorize
appropriations for fiscal year 2026 for
military activities of the Department
of Defense, for military construction,
and for defense activities of the De-
partment of Energy, to prescribe mili-
tary personnel strengths for such fiscal
year, and for other purposes; which was
ordered to lie on the table; as follows:
At the appropriate place, insert the fol-
lowing:
SEC. lll. SPECTRUM AUCTIONS.
Section 309(j)(11) of the Communications
Act of 1934 (47 U.S.C. 309(j)(11)) is amended by
striking subparagraphs (A) and (B) and in-
serting the following:
‘‘(A) between the frequencies of 3.1
gigahertz and 3.45 gigahertz, such authority
shall not apply;
‘‘(B) between the frequencies of 3.55
gigahertz and 3.7 gigahertz, such authority
shall not apply;
‘‘(C) between the frequencies of 5.925
gigahertz and 7.125 gigahertz, such authority
shall not apply; and
‘‘(D) between the frequencies of 7.4
gigahertz and 8.4 gigahertz, such authority
shall not apply.’’.
SA 3878. Ms. CANTWELL submitted
an amendment intended to be proposed
by her to the bill S. 2296, to authorize
appropriations for fiscal year 2026 for
military activities of the Department
of Defense, for military construction,
and for defense activities of the De-
partment of Energy, to prescribe mili-
tary personnel strengths for such fiscal
year, and for other purposes; which was
ordered to lie on the table; as follows:
At the appropriate place, insert the fol-
lowing:
SEC. lll. CERTIFICATION RELATING TO RE-
ALLOCATED FREQUENCIES.
Section 40002(c)(3) of the Act entitled ‘‘An
Act to provide for reconciliation pursuant to
title II of H. Con. Res. 14’’, approved July 3,
2025 (Public Law 119–21; 139 Stat. 130), is
amended by adding at the end the following:
‘‘(C) CERTIFICATION.—In conducting the
analysis under subparagraph (A), the Assist-
ant Secretary shall certify that reallocation
of any specific frequencies identified for
commercial use would not negatively impact
the primary mission of the Federal Aviation
Administration.’’.
SA 3879. Ms. CANTWELL submitted
an amendment intended to be proposed
by her to the bill S. 2296, to authorize
appropriations for fiscal year 2026 for
military activities of the Department
of Defense, for military construction,

PAGE 48

SEC. lll. SPECTRUM AUCTIONS.
Section 40002(c)(3) of the Act entitled ‘‘An
Act to provide for reconciliation pursuant to
title II of H. Con. Res. 14’’, approved July 3,
2025 (Public Law 119–21), is amended by add-
ing at the end the following:
‘‘(C) CERTIFICATION.—In conducting the
analysis under subparagraph (A), the Assist-
ant Secretary shall certify that reallocation
of any specific frequencies identified for
commercial use would not negatively impact
the primary mission of the National Oceanic
and Atmospheric Administration.’’.
SA 3880. Ms. COLLINS (for herself
and Ms. DUCKWORTH) submitted an
amendment intended to be proposed to
amendment SA 3748 proposed by Mr.
WICKER (for himself and Mr. REED) to
the bill S. 2296, to authorize appropria-
tions for fiscal year 2026 for military
activities of the Department of De-
fense, for military construction, and
for defense activities of the Depart-
ment of Energy, to prescribe military
personnel strengths for such fiscal
year, and for other purposes; which was
ordered to lie on the table; as follows:
At the end of subtitle C of title VIII, add
the following:
SEC. 849B. REPORT ON UNITED STATES BOOT IN-
DUSTRIAL BASE AND BERRY AMEND-
MENT COMPLIANCE.
(a) REPORT REQUIRED.—Not later than 90
days after the date of the enactment of this
Act, the Secretary of Defense shall submit to
the congressional defense committees a re-
port on the United States boot industrial
base, including a comprehensive plan for the
Department of Defense to fully comply with
the requirements under section 4862 of title
10, United States Code (commonly referred
to as the ‘‘Berry Amendment’’) by not later
than fiscal year 2028.
(b) ELEMENTS.—The report required under
subsection (a) shall include the following ele-
ments:
(1) A detailed description of current and
surge manufacturing capacity for Berry-
compliant, government-issued boots, includ-
ing suppliers of leather, textiles, soles, and
components, as well as risks to supply chain
resilience and small business participation.
Surge manufacturing capacity includes all
major domestic manufacturers of boots in-
cluding those not currently supplying Berry-
compliant boots.
(2) A market survey of domestic boot man-
ufacturers regarding interest in producing
Berry-compliant boots if there were to be a
requirement that all members of the Armed
Forces are required to only wear Berry-com-
pliant boots.
(3) A time-phased schedule of actions,
milestones, and resources required to
achieve full Berry Amendment compliance
for combat footwear across all military serv-
ices by fiscal year 2028.
(4) An assessment of how current policies
allowing the wear of ‘‘optional combat
boots’’ that are not Berry-compliant under-
mine the intent of the Berry Amendment
and weaken the United States industrial
base, and recommendations for coming into
compliance.
(5) A plan to implement and enforce nar-
rowly tailored availability and medical ex-
emptions, as authorized under section 4862(c)
of title 10, United States Code, with controls
to prevent overuse.

SA 3881. Mr. KELLY (for himself, Mr.
SHEEHY, and Mrs. BRITT) submitted an
amendment intended to be proposed to
amendment SA 3748 proposed by Mr.
WICKER (for himself and Mr. REED) to
the bill S. 2296, to authorize appropria-
tions for fiscal year 2026 for military
activities of the Department of De-
fense, for military construction, and
for defense activities of the Depart-
ment of Energy, to prescribe military
personnel strengths for such fiscal
year, and for other purposes; which was
ordered to lie on the table; as follows:
At the end of subtitle E of title III, add the
following:
SEC. 350. CONVEYANCE OF CERTAIN AIRCRAFT
FROM THE NAVY TO THE U.S. SPACE
AND ROCKET CENTER COMMISSION
IN HUNTSVILLE, ALABAMA.
(a) AUTHORITY.—The Secretary of the Navy
(in this section referred to as the ‘‘Sec-
retary’’) may transfer (by sale, gift, or other-
wise, including by loan) to the U.S. Space
and Rocket Center Commission in Hunts-
ville, Alabama (in this section referred to as
the ‘‘Commission’’), all right, title, and in-
terest of the United States in one or more F–
14 Tomcat aircraft currently in the custody
of the Department of the Navy or the De-
partment of Defense, on such terms and con-
ditions as the Secretary considers appro-
priate, which may include requirements for
demilitarization and indemnification and
may restrict further disposition or use.
(b) AGREEMENTS FOR RESTORATION AND OP-
ERATION.—The Secretary may authorize the
Commission to enter into agreements with
qualified nonprofit organizations for the pur-
pose of restoring and operating aircraft
transferred under subsection (a) for public
display, airshows, and commemorative
events to preserve naval aviation heritage.
(c) CONVEYANCEATNOCOSTTOTHEUNITED
STATES.—The conveyance of an aircraft
under subsection (a) shall be made at no cost
to the United States. Any costs associated
with such conveyance, costs of determining
compliance with terms of the conveyance,
and costs of operation and maintenance of
the aircraft conveyed shall be borne by the
Commission.
SA 3882. Mr. BOOKER submitted an
amendment intended to be proposed to
amendment SA 3748 proposed by Mr.
WICKER (for himself and Mr. REED) to
the bill S. 2296, to authorize appropria-
tions for fiscal year 2026 for military
activities of the Department of De-
fense, for military construction, and
for defense activities of the Depart-
ment of Energy, to prescribe military
personnel strengths for such fiscal
year, and for other purposes; which was
ordered to lie on the table; as follows:
At the end of subtitle D of title X, add the
following:
SEC. 1038. DETAINEE TRANSFER NOTIFICATION
REQUIREMENT.
Not later than 24 hours before transferring
any person detained in an immigration de-
tention facility to a new detention facility,
an appropriate U.S. Immigration and Cus-
toms Enforcement officer shall notify the at-
torney or designated family member of such
person of such transfer, which notification

him to the bill S. 2296, to authorize ap-
propriations for fiscal year 2026 for
military activities of the Department
of Defense, for military construction,
and for defense activities of the De-
partment of Energy, to prescribe mili-
tary personnel strengths for such fiscal
year, and for other purposes; which was
ordered to lie on the table; as follows:
At the appropriate place, insert the fol-
lowing:
SEC. ll. ELIMINATION OF INCREASED PEN-
ALTIES FOR COCAINE OFFENSES
WHERE THE COCAINE INVOLVED IS
COCAINE BASE.
(a) CONTROLLEDSUBSTANCESACT.—The fol-
lowing provisions of the Controlled Sub-
stances Act (21 U.S.C. 801 et seq.) are re-
pealed:
(1) Clause (iii) of section 401(b)(1)(A) (21
U.S.C. 841(b)(1)(A)).
(2) Clause (iii) of section 401(b)(1)(B) (21
U.S.C. 841(b)(1)(B)).
(b) CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES IMPORT AND
EXPORT ACT.—The following provisions of
the Controlled Substances Import and Ex-
port Act (21 U.S.C. 951 et seq.) are repealed:
(1) Subparagraph (C) of section 1010(b)(1)
(21 U.S.C. 960(b)(1)).
(2) Subparagraph (C) of section 1010(b)(2)
(21 U.S.C. 960(b)(2)).
(c) APPLICABILITY TO PENDING AND PAST
CASES.—
(1) PENDING CASES.—This section, and the
amendments made by this section, shall
apply to any sentence imposed after the date
of enactment of this Act, regardless of when
the offense was committed.
(2) PASTCASES.—In the case of a defendant
who, before the date of enactment of this
Act, was convicted or sentenced for a Fed-
eral offense involving cocaine base, the sen-
tencing court may, on motion of the defend-
ant, the Bureau of Prisons, the attorney for
the Government, or on its own motion, im-
pose a reduced sentence after considering the
factors set forth in section 3553(a) of title 18,
United States Code.
SA 3884. Mr. BOOKER submitted an
amendment intended to be proposed to
amendment SA 3748 proposed by Mr.
WICKER (for himself and Mr. REED) to
the bill S. 2296, to authorize appropria-
tions for fiscal year 2026 for military
activities of the Department of De-
fense, for military construction, and
for defense activities of the Depart-
ment of Energy, to prescribe military
personnel strengths for such fiscal
year, and for other purposes; which was
ordered to lie on the table; as follows:
At the end of subtitle B of title V, add the
following:
SEC. 515. REPORTING ON NATIONAL GUARD DE-
PLOYMENTS WITHIN THE UNITED
STATES.
Not later than 7 days after the date of the
enactment of this Act, and weekly there-
after, the Secretary of Defense shall submit
to the congressional defense committees a
publicly available report on the cost of all
current deployments of the National Guard
within the United States.
SA 3885. Mr. BOOKER submitted an
amendment intended to be proposed by

PAGE 49

year, and for other purposes; which was
ordered to lie on the table; as follows:
At the appropriate place, insert the fol-
lowing:
SEC. lllll. UNITED STATES MARSHALS SERV-
ICE.
(a) TRANSFER.—Title 28, United States
Code, is amended—
(1) by redesignating chapter 37 as chapter
59; and
(2) by transferring chapter 59, as so redes-
ignated, from part II to part III so as to ap-
pear after chapter 58.
(b) COURT OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES.—
Chapter 59, as redesignated by subsection (a),
of title 28, United States Code, is amended—
(1) in section 561—
(A) by striking subsections (a) through (d)
and inserting the following:
‘‘(a) There is hereby established a United
States Marshals Service as a bureau within
the judicial branch of the United States.
There shall be at the head of the United
States Marshals Service (hereafter in this
chapter referred to as the ‘Service’) a Direc-
tor (hereafter in this chapter referred to as
the ‘Director’) who shall be appointed by the
Chief Justice, in consultation with the Board
established under subsection (i) (hereafter in
this chapter referred to as the ‘Board’). The
Director may be removed by the Board.
‘‘(b) The Chief Justice of the United States
shall appoint, in consultation with the
Board, a United States marshal for each ju-
dicial district of the United States and for
the Superior Court of the District of Colum-
bia, except that any marshal appointed for
the Northern Mariana Islands may at the
same time serve as marshal in another judi-
cial district. Each United States marshal
shall be an official of the Service and shall
serve under the direction of the Director.
‘‘(c) Each marshal shall be appointed for a
term of four years. A marshal shall, unless
that marshal has resigned or been removed
by the Chief Justice of the United States, in
consultation with the Board, continue to
perform the duties of that office after the
end of that 4-year term until a successor is
appointed and qualifies.’’;
(B) by redesignating subsections (e)
through (i) as subsections (d) through (h), re-
spectively; and
(C) by adding at the end the following:
‘‘(i)(1) The activities of the Director shall
be supervised by a Board to be composed of—
‘‘(A) the Chief Justice of the United States;
‘‘(B) the Judicial Conference of the United
States; and
‘‘(C) the Director, who shall be an ex offi-
cio, nonvoting member.
‘‘(2) The Board shall establish general
goals and objectives covering the major
functions and operations of the Service to
improve the efficiency and effectiveness of
the operations of the Service.’’;
(2) in section 562, by striking subsections
(a) and (b) and inserting the following:
‘‘In the case of a vacancy in the office of a
United States marshal, the Chief Justice of
the United States, shall appoint a United
States marshal to serve the remainder of the
4-year term.’’;
(3) by striking section 564;
(4) by redesignating sections 565 and 566 as
sections 564 and 565, respectively;
(5) in section 564, as so redesignated, by
striking ‘‘Attorney General’’ and inserting
‘‘Chief Justice of the United States, in con-
sultation with the Board’’;

interests of justice where criminal intimida-
tion impedes on the functioning of the judi-
cial process or any other official pro-
ceeding.’’;
(B) in subsection (h), by striking ‘‘directed
by the Attorney General’’ and inserting ‘‘re-
quested by the Attorney General, and ap-
proved by the Director’’; and
(C) in subsection (i), by striking the third
sentence;
(7) by inserting after section 565, as so re-
designated, the following:
‘‘§566. Assistance in other law enforcement
matters
‘‘At the request of the Attorney General,
and with the approval of the Director, the
Service may assist the Department of Jus-
tice with the following tasks:
‘‘(1) Investigating such fugitive matters,
both within and outside the United States,
as directed by the Attorney General.
‘‘(2) Issuing administrative subpoenas in
accordance with section 3486 of title 18, sole-
ly for the purpose of investigating unregis-
tered sex offenders (as defined in section
3486).
‘‘(3) Assisting State, local, and other Fed-
eral law enforcement agencies, upon the re-
quest of such an agency, in locating and re-
covering missing children.’’; and
(8) in section 569(b), by striking ‘‘Presi-
dent’’ and inserting ‘‘Chief Justice, in con-
sultation with the Board’’.
(c) TECHNICAL AND CONFORMING AMEND-
MENTS.—
(1) The table of chapters for part III of title
28, United States Code, is amended by adding
at the end the following:
‘‘59. United States Marshals Service 561’’.
(2) The table of contents for chapter 59, as
redesignated by subsection (a) of this sec-
tion, is amended by read as follows:
‘‘Sec.
‘‘561. United States Marshals Service.
‘‘562. Vacancies.
‘‘563. Oath of office.
‘‘564. Expenses of the Service.
‘‘565. Powers and duties.
‘‘566. Assistance in other law enforcement
matters.
‘‘567. Collection of fees; accounting.
‘‘568. Practice of law prohibited.
‘‘569. Reemployment rights.’’.
(3) Section 3002(16) of title 28, United
States Code, is amended by striking ‘‘, a dep-
uty’’ and all that follows through the period
at the end and inserting ‘‘or a deputy mar-
shal.’’
(4) Section 210G(k)(3)(C) of the Homeland
Security Act of 2002 (6 U.S.C.
124n(k)(3)(C)(ii)) is amended—
(A) in clause (ii), by striking subclause (I)
and inserting the following:
‘‘(I) personal protection operations by the
Federal Bureau of Investigation as specified
in section 533 of title 28, United States
Code;’’;
(B) in clause (iii)(III), by striking ‘‘and’’ at
the end;
(C) in clause (iv), by striking the period at
the end and inserting ‘‘; and’’; and
(D) by adding at the end the following:
‘‘(v) missions authorized to be performed
by the judicial branch, including personal
protection operations by the United States
Marshals Service of Federal jurists, court of-
ficers, witnesses, and other threatened per-
sons in the interests of justice, as specified
in section 565(e) of title 28, United States
Code.’’.

of the United States Marshals Service Direc-
tor, the United States Marshals Service may
assist the Department of Justice’’; and
(B) by striking the second sentence.
SA 3886. Mr. MCCORMICK submitted
an amendment intended to be proposed
by him to the bill S. 2296, to authorize
appropriations for fiscal year 2026 for
military activities of the Department
of Defense, for military construction,
and for defense activities of the De-
partment of Energy, to prescribe mili-
tary personnel strengths for such fiscal
year, and for other purposes; which was
ordered to lie on the table; as follows:
Strike section 1012 and insert the fol-
lowing:
SEC. 1012. LIMITATION ON USE OF FUNDS IN THE
NATIONAL DEFENSE SEALIFT FUND
TO PURCHASE CERTAIN USED FOR-
EIGN CONSTRUCTED VESSELS.
(a) IN GENERAL.—Section 2218 of title 10,
United States Code, is amended—
(1) in subsection (f)—
(A) in paragraph (3)—
(i) in subparagraph (A), by inserting
‘‘(other than an excluded vessel)’’ after ‘‘any
used vessel’’;
(ii) in subparagraph (B), by inserting
‘‘(other than an excluded vessel)’’ after ‘‘a
used vessel’’;
(iii) by striking subparagraph (C) and in-
serting the following new subparagraph (C):
‘‘(C) The Secretary may only use the au-
thority under this paragraph to purchase
more than 10 foreign-constructed vessels if,
for each such vessel so purchased after the
tenth vessel, the Secretary purchases one
vessel under paragraph (4).’’;
(iv) in subparagraph (D), by striking ‘‘sub-
paragraph (A)’’ and inserting ‘‘this para-
graph’’; and
(v) by striking subparagraph (E) and redes-
ignating subparagraphs (F) and (G) as sub-
paragraphs (E) and (F), respectively; and
(B) by adding at the end the following new
paragraph (4):
‘‘(4) A vessel purchased under this para-
graph is a vessel—
‘‘(A) purchased using funds in the National
Defense Sealift Fund;
‘‘(B) constructed in a ship yard located in
the United States; and
‘‘(C) the construction of which is managed
by a commercial vessel construction man-
ager.’’; and
(2) in subsection (k), by adding at the end
the following new paragraph:
‘‘(6) The term ‘excluded vessel’ means a
vessel that was—
‘‘(A) constructed or substantially modified
by an entity located in the People’s Republic
of China; or
‘‘(B) constructed by a Chinese military
company, as such term is defined in section
1260H(d)(1) of the William M. (Mac) Thorn-
berry National Defense Authorization Act
for Fiscal Year 2021 (Public Law 116–283; 10
U.S.C. 113 note).’’.
(b) TECHNICAL CORRECTIONS.—Section 2218
of title 10, United States Code, as amended
by subsection (a), is further amended—
(1) in subsection (c)(1)(D), by striking ‘‘sec-
tion 11 of the Merchant Ship Sales Act of
1946 (50 U.S.C. 4405)’’ and inserting ‘‘section
57100 of title 46’’;
(2) in subsection (f)(2), by striking ‘‘section
1424(b) of Public Law 101–510 (104 Stat. 1683)’’

PAGE 50

1683)’’ and inserting ‘‘section 1424 of the Na-
tional Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal
Year 1991 (Public Law 101–510; 10 U.S.C. 8661
note)’’; and
(B) in paragraph (3)(B), by striking ‘‘sec-
tion 11 of the Merchant Ship Sales Act of
1946 (50 U.S.C. 4405)’’ and inserting ‘‘section
57100 of title 46’’.
SA 3887. Mr. BOOKER submitted an
amendment intended to be proposed by
him to the bill S. 2296, to authorize ap-
propriations for fiscal year 2026 for
military activities of the Department
of Defense, for military construction,
and for defense activities of the De-
partment of Energy, to prescribe mili-
tary personnel strengths for such fiscal
year, and for other purposes; which was
ordered to lie on the table; as follows:
At the appropriate place in title II, insert
the following:
SEC. 2ll. LIMITATION ON AVAILABILITY OF
FUNDS FOR REALIGNMENT OF THE
RESEARCH, DEVELOPMENT, TEST,
AND EVALUATION FUNCTION FOR
ARMY AMMUNITION.
(a) LIMITATION.—None of the funds author-
ized to be appropriated by this Act or other-
wise made available for fiscal year 2026 for
the Department of Defense may be obligated
or expended to realign the research, develop-
ment, test, and evaluation function for Army
ammunition away from the Joint Program
Executive Office Armaments and Ammuni-
tion or Joint Capabilities Portfolio Execu-
tive Ammunition construct as in effect on
the day before the date of the enactment of
this Act until a period of 180 days has
elapsed following the date on which the re-
port required under subsection (b) is sub-
mitted to the congressional defense commit-
tees.
(b) REPORT REQUIRED.—Not later than No-
vember 1, 2026, the Secretary of the Army
shall submit to the congressional defense
committees a report that includes the fol-
lowing with respect to the proposed realign-
ment of functions described in subsection
(a):
(1) An explanation of whether Army per-
sonnel, including contractors, would be re-
quired to relocate to a new location and if so
an estimate of how many personnel would re-
locate and to what locations.
(2) An explanation of whether the Army ex-
pects to build new facilities and infrastruc-
ture at new locations to accomplish the re-
search, development, test, and evaluation
function for Army ammunition and, if so,
identification of—
(A) what new facilities and infrastructure
would have to be constructed; and
(B) where such facilities and infrastructure
would be constructed.
(3) A detailed estimate of the costs of relo-
cating personnel and equipment and con-
structing new facilities and infrastructure.
(4) A detailed explanation of the effi-
ciencies, if any, that the Army expects to re-
alize by realigning the research, develop-
ment, test, and evaluation function for Army
ammunition to Capabilities Portfolio Execu-
tive Fires.
(5) In consultation with the with the Sec-
retary of the Navy and the Secretary of the
Air Force, a determination as to whether re-
aligning the research, development, test, and

AUTHORITY FOR COMMITTEES TO
MEET
Mr. COTTON. Mr. President, I have
five requests for committees to meet
during today’s session of the Senate.
They have the approval of the Majority
and Minority Leaders.
Pursuant to rule XXVI, paragraph
5(a), of the Standing Rules of the Sen-
ate, the following committees are au-
thorized to meet during today’s session
of the Senate:
COMMITTEEONARMEDSERVICES
The Committee on Armed Services is
authorized to meet during the session
of the Senate on Thursday, September
11, 2025, at 9:15 a.m., to conduct a hear-
ing on a nomination.
COMMITTEEONENERGYANDNATURAL
RESOURCES
The Committee on Energy and Nat-
ural Resources is authorized to meet
during the session of the Senate on
Thursday, September 11, 2025, at 9 a.m.,
to conduct a business meeting.
COMMITTEEONFOREIGNRELATIONS
The Committee on Foreign Relations
is authorized to meet during the ses-
sion of the Senate on Thursday, Sep-
tember 11, 2025, at 10:30 a.m., to con-
duct a business meeting.
COMMITTEEONFOREIGNRELATIONS
The Committee on Foreign Relations
is authorized to meet during the ses-
sion of the Senate on Thursday, Sep-
tember 11, 2025, at 10:30 a.m., to con-
duct a hearing on nominations directly
following the business meeting.
COMMITTEEONTHEJUDICIARY
The Committee on the Judiciary is
authorized to meet during the session
of the Senate on Thursday, September
11, 2025, at 9:15 a.m., to conduct an ex-
ecutive business meeting.
f
ORDERS FOR MONDAY,
SEPTEMBER 15, 2025
Mr. COTTON. Mr. President, I ask
unanimous consent that when the Sen-
ate completes its business today, it
stand adjourned until 3 p.m. on Mon-
day, September 15; that following the
prayer and pledge, the Journal of pro-
ceedings be approved to date, the
morning hour be deemed expired, the
time for the two leaders be reserved for
their use later in the day, morning
business be closed, and the Senate pro-
ceed to executive session and resume
consideration of Executive Calendar
No. 1, S. Res. 377; and notwithstanding
rule XXII, at 5:30 p.m., all postcloture
time be expired and the Senate vote on
adoption of the resolution; and, fur-
ther, following disposition of the reso-
lution, the Senate vote on the motion
to invoke cloture on Executive Cal-

ORDER FOR ADJOURNMENT
Mr. COTTON. Mr. President, if there
is no further business to come before
the Senate, I ask that it stand ad-
journed under the previous order, fol-
lowing the remarks of Senator CANT-
WELL.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Washington.
f
HANFORD SITE CLEANUP
Ms. CANTWELL. Mr. President, I
come to the floor today to remind ev-
eryone in the United States of America
that we have a cleanup obligation at
the Hanford Site in the State of Wash-
ington and to remind the Secretary of
Energy and the Trump administration
of a commitment to that part of the
United States, to our Nation, and to
the cleanup of the most contaminated
nuclear site in our Nation. We have an
agreement between the Washington
State Department of Ecology, the U.S.
Environmental Protection Agency, and
the U.S. Department of Energy, and
that is to clean up this site.
Right now, there are 56 million gal-
lons of radioactive and chemical waste
being stored underground in World War
II era tanks. These 177 waste storage
tanks are over 80 years old, so defi-
nitely beyond their life design. Some of
these tanks are leaking over 1,000 gal-
lons of waste in a year into the ground.
So this waste is making its way to the
Columbia River, which supplies drink-
ing water to nearly 30,000 residents in
the Tri-Cities.
The Federal Government, as I men-
tioned, is legally and morally obligated
to clean up the dangerous mess it left
on the sprawling Hanford Site. We
know this part of our U.S. history and
the effort that men and women made
during World War II in an unbelievable
timeframe, but it also left us with a
huge obligation to clean up the nuclear
waste. The Tri-Party Agreement guides
the Hanford Cleanup schedule and the
goals that need to be met to complete
this mission. Our current Energy Sec-
retary, if he is thinking about ignoring
these commitments to science or the
Tri-Party Agreement, he needs to
rethink that.
This couldn’t come at a worse time.
In just 6 weeks, for the first time, the
removal and treatment of radioactive
waste that has been stored in these
tanks and in the ground for 80 years
will begin to be processed. This proc-
ess, called vitrification—a process that
other countries, like France and Japan
and Germany have all successfully
achieved—is basically taking the radio-
active sludge and turning it into a sta-
ble, storable glass. That is what the

PAGE 51

When Secretary Wright testified in
the Senate Energy and Natural Re-
sources Committee, he said, ‘‘Senator,’’
speaking to me, ‘‘I can’t overstate how
critical I think it is to finish the job,
finish the cleanup at Hanford. Hanford
gave a lot to this country, and we left
a mess that needs to be cleaned up.’’ He
went on to say, ‘‘I am firmly com-
mitted to continuing our obligations
and our moral obligations to clean up
the mess that was left behind in your
state.’’
So I had a chance to ask the Sec-
retary about this, and that is why news
this week that somehow, maybe in Oc-
tober, we are not going to start the vit-
rification plan—we are not, after 23
years and $24 billion going to actually
start the process of taking the radio-
active waste and turning it into this
glassification process, so we can once
and for all dispose of it.
I know that the people in the Tri-Cit-
ies are very anxious about this situa-
tion because the vitrification plant, as
I said, was supposed to start on October
15. You don’t have to go far back—well,
actually, maybe you do have to go far
back several Energy Secretaries—to
look at what happens when it comes to
Hanford cleanup. Every time a new ad-
ministration comes in, somebody looks
at the amount of money that it takes
to clean up nuclear waste that has been
stored in tanks and says, ‘‘This costs
too much. We ought to be able to do it
cheaper.’’
So I would say to our current col-
leagues over at the Department of En-
ergy, you need to look at history and
think twice. Secretary Abraham, En-
ergy Secretary, formerly U.S. Senator
from Michigan, said that he was going
to fundamentally transform cleanup
with an accelerated cleanup plan in
2002. This represented the most dra-
matic shift in a cleanup strategy since
the original Tri-Party Agreement be-
tween the U.S. Government and those
agencies that I mentioned. He claimed
that he would save $50 billion on clean-
up. Guess what? It didn’t work. It just
delayed the cleanup and cost taxpayers
more money.
Secretary Bodman, he inherited Sec-
retary Abraham’s unrealistic promise,

and he failed to address the funda-
mental technical problems emerging at
the waste treatment plant—problems
with hydrogen gas build-up, pulse jet
mixing, nuclear critical risk, and iden-
tified during his tenure, but not ade-
quately addressed—creating a legacy
of, really, technical debt that would
cost billions of dollars to resolve.
I can say to my colleagues, I got to a
point that I said, I am for an Energy
Secretary for life, or until they clean
up Hanford, because that is how tech-
nical the job is and leaving it every few
years to a new Energy Secretary and
administrators, to me, was part of the
challenge. Also during the Bush admin-
istration, when Secretary Bodman was
there, they tried to shortcut the clean-
up process by saying we could just
grout the waste.
So, obviously, you can’t just pour
concrete on high level nuclear waste,
on a toxic brew, and then just leave it
in the ground—so many, many chal-
lenges there. Despite Secretary Chu’s
Nobel Prize-winning credentials and
genuine commitment to scientific
rigor, he failed to overcome the sys-
tematic problems at Hanford.
Secretary Moniz, a physicist Sec-
retary, attempted to work around the
waste treatment plant’s technical
problems. His framework for tank
waste cleanup—including sending some
waste to New Mexico and a partial
treatment within the tanks—were ap-
proaches that essentially abandoned
the original cleanup strategy without
demonstrating the alternatives would
be faster and cheaper. I am sure there
were people over at OMB that probably
egged on these ideas, thinking that
somehow they were going to save
money. They didn’t. They didn’t even
work.
Secretary Perry achieved no signifi-
cant breakthrough in addressing Han-
ford’s cost or schedule problems. The
single shell tanks continued to deterio-
rate, with Tank B–109 actively leaking
during his tenure. That is radioactive
waste leaking. The waste treatment
plant remained plagued by technical
problems and schedule delays with low

activity waste facilities not oper-
ational, despite being nearly complete.
Energy Secretary Brouillette prob-
ably did the best job I have seen in my
tenure. He—this was in the last Trump
administration—he and his Deputy
Secretary Dabbar really focused on
project management and got the low
activity waste facility finally dialed in
and on track—so literally created the
facility to treat the waste.
This facility that is set to be open—
apparently now, someone is calling
into question, ‘‘Maybe let’s not open
it’’—after 23 years and $24 billion and
all these problems and all these mis-
haps of every Energy Secretary listen-
ing to probably a lower staffer, saying,
‘‘There’s a way to do it differently,’’
somehow, somebody is following in the
same apparent wrong-headed idea that
somehow you don’t have to turn on
this plant and we shouldn’t move for-
ward. I know that we must continue
our obligations at the facility.
I know that we can’t walk away from
this commitment. I know that the vit-
rification process has been proven sci-
entifically, and unless there is a prob-
lem at this plant, we need to move for-
ward with the production of waste to
glass that people have been counting
on for years. We cannot put another
generation of Washingtonians or Tri-
Citians or U.S. citizens, leaving this
kind of waste without a solution—we
can’t change course.
We need to stay the course and get
this project done. I hope we will be
having an opening and that we can fi-
nally say, ‘‘We have treated this waste
and are ready to remove the rest of the
waste in the tanks.’’
I yield the floor.
f
ADJOURNMENT UNTIL MONDAY,
SEPTEMBER 15, 2025, AT 3 P.M.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Under
the previous order, the Senate stands
adjourned until Monday, September 15,
2025, at 3 p.m.
Thereupon, the Senate, at 6:08 p.m.,
adjourned until Monday, September 15,
2025, at 3 p.m.

PAGE 52

EXTE
HONORING MRS. KATIE BLOUNT
HON. BENNIE G. THOMPSON
OFMISSISSIPPI
INTHEHOUSEOFREPRESENTATIVES
Thursday, September 11, 2025
Mr. THOMPSON of Mississippi. Mr. Speak-
er, I rise today to honor the remarkable lead-
ership and lifelong contributions of Mrs. Katie
Blount, whose tenure as Director of the Mis-
sissippi Department of Archives and History
(MDAH) has left an enduring mark on our
state.
Mrs. Blount began her career at Mississippi
Department of Archives and history in 1994 as
a public relations coordinator and steadily rose
through the ranks. She served as assistant to
the director for communication, working under
former directors Elbert R. Hilliard and H. T.
Holmes. In 2015, she was appointed as the
agency’s seventh director, becoming only the
second woman to lead MDAH since its found-
ing on 1902. Over the course of more than
three decades of service, Mrs. Blount has pro-
vided steadfast leadership and vision, culmina-
tion in her announced retirement effective
June 30, 2026.
Under her stewardship, MDAH has grown
into a nationally recognized institution. Mrs.
Blount guided the creation of the Two Mis-
sissippi Museums, preserving and sharing the
diverse storIes of our state, and she cham-
pioned the public engagement that supported
adoption of Mississippi’s new state flag. She
also worked tirelessly to strengthen relation-
ships with Tribal partners through repatriation
and advanced preservation projects across the
state, including the new Vicksburg Civil War
Visitor Center, the stabilization of Windsor
Ruins, enhancements at the Grand Village of
the Natchez Indians, and the development of
Margaret Ann Crigler Park in Jackson.
Her vision for inclusive storytelling reshaped
programming and interpretation at MDAH, en-
suring that the voices and histories of all Mis-
sissippians are represented. Earlier this year,
the American Association for State and Local
History honored Mrs. Blount with a Lifetime
Achievement Award, recognizing her extraor-
dinary dedication to public history.
Mr. Speaker, I ask my colleagues to join me
in recognizing Mrs. Katie Blount for her stead-
fast commitment to preserving the heritage of
Mississippi and for her outstanding service to
our communities. Her leadership has endured
that future generations will better understand
and appreciate the rich and complex history of

ENSIONS OF REMA
HONORING THE 5TH PASTORAL
ANNIVERSARY OF PASTOR STE-
PHEN ‘‘CHUCK’’ NASH, JR.
HON. JASMINE CROCKETT
OFTEXAS
INTHEHOUSEOFREPRESENTATIVES
Thursday, September 11, 2025
Ms. CROCKETT. Mr. Speaker, it brings me
great joy to congratulate Pastor Stephen
‘‘Chuck’’ Nash, Jr. on celebrating five years of
pastorship and ministry at the Mount Horeb-
Belt Line Baptist Church in Lancaster, Texas.
What began with an answered call by father
and son has grown and flourished into a vast
congregation between two locations. Pastor
Nash, Jr.’s steadfast leadership has provided
his congregation a place of peace and support
in North Texas.
A Dallas native, Pastor Nash. Jr. began as
an assistant youth pastor after graduating from
Booker T. High School of the Engineering Pro-
fessions in Houston. He earned his degree in
Religion with a minor in Social Work from
Texas College in Tyler. Together, he and his
father, Dr. Nash, founded Mount Horeb Mis-
sionary Baptist Church-DeSoto, later expand-
ing to Lancaster, offering spiritual guidance to
the communities of DeSoto, Lancaster, and
Cedar Hill. With honors like Young Minister of
the Year and his role as Assistant General
Secretary of the Baptist Missionary and Edu-
cation Convention, Pastor Stephen Nash, Jr,
has proven himself a dedicated leader to the
North Texas community.
Being entrusted with caring for God’s chil-
dren is no easy feat. It is evident that the lead-
ership of Pastor Nash, Jr. is God-fearing and
operates with a community-focused mindset
through weekly services and the Horeb Stu-
dent Ministry. I thank him for his selflessness
and for doing the work to care for the constitu-
ents of the 30th Congressional District. I con-
gratulate him again on five years of ministry.
f
HONORING THE FALLEN CORREC-
TIONAL OFFICERS AND CIVILIAN
EMPLOYEES OF ATTICA CORREC-
TIONAL FACILITY
HON. NICHOLAS A. LANGWORTHY
OFNEWYORK
INTHEHOUSEOFREPRESENTATIVES
Thursday, September 11, 2025
Mr. LANGWORTHY. I rise today to solemnly
honor the courage and sacrifice of the correc-
tional officers and civilian employees who lost
their lives at Attica Correctional Facility during
the prison riot 54 years ago this week. The
events that began on September 9, 1971, rep-
resent one of the most tragic chapters in our
state’s history and serve as a solemn re-
minder of the extraordinary risks borne by

ARKS
their colleagues, maintaining order, and serv-
ing the public good. Their lives were cut short
in an instant of violence, but their legacy en-
dures.
Today, we formally recognize and honor
their memory. Their sacrifice stands as a tes-
tament to the professionalism and courage of
the thousands of correctional officers and civil-
ian staff who serve every day under chal-
lenging and often dangerous circumstances.
We owe these fallen heroes our deepest
gratitude. May their names be remembered,
their service honored, and their families com-
forted in knowing their loved ones’ sacrifices
will never be forgotten.
I ask that the United States House of Rep-
resentatives join me in paying tribute to those
who made the ultimate sacrifice at Attica Cor-
rectional Facility and in recognizing the ongo-
ing commitment of our Nation’s correctional
workforce.
f
RECOGNIZING THE GROUND-
BREAKING OF CHABAD SOUTH-
WEST LAS VEGAS
HON. SUSIE LEE
OFNEVADA
INTHEHOUSEOFREPRESENTATIVES
Thursday, September 11, 2025
Ms. LEE of Nevada. Mr. Speaker, I rise
today to recognize and celebrate a milestone
moment for the Jewish community in southern
Nevada—the groundbreaking of the perma-
nent home of Chabad Southwest Las Vegas,
which will take place on September 13, 2025.
Founded under the leadership of Rabbi Levi
Wilhelm and Mrs. Chayala Wilhelm, Chabad
Southwest has become a vibrant center for
Jewish life, learning, and community in the
Southwest Las Vegas Valley.
The new permanent home of Chabad
Southwest Las Vegas will serve as a hub for
worship, education, and fellowship. It will
house weekly prayer services, holiday pro-
grams, adult and child education classes,
Mommy & Me programs, women’s groups,
after-school enrichment, and a wide variety of
cultural and social gatherings. This expansion
will allow Chabad Southwest Las Vegas to
better serve families, individuals, and future
generations, strengthening the fabric of the
southern Nevada community.
The groundbreaking marks not only a con-
struction project but also the realization of a
vision—‘‘Building Our Future Together’’—that
will ensure the Jewish community in the region
has a spiritual, educational, and cultural home
for decades to come.
On this historic occasion, I ask my col-
leagues to join me in congratulating Rabbi
Levi and Mrs. Chayala Wilhelm, the dedicated
members of the Chabad Southwest Las Vegas
community, and all those whose generosity
and commitment have made this day possible.

PAGE 53

HONORING THE URBAN LEAGUE
OF BROWARD COUNTY
HON. DEBBIE WASSERMAN SCHULTZ
OFFLORIDA
INTHEHOUSEOFREPRESENTATIVES
Thursday, September 11, 2025
Ms. WASSERMAN SCHULTZ. Mr. Speaker,
it is with great enthusiasm that I rise to recog-
nize the exceptional work of the Urban League
of Broward County on its 50th Anniversary.
The National Urban League is a historic civil
rights organization dedicated to elevating the
standard of living in historically underserved
urban communities. The Urban League of
Broward County was founded in 1975 as an
affiliate of the National Urban League, and
since then, this community-based organization
has been dedicated to empowering commu-
nities and changing lives.
The League helps communities in need gain
power and independence by promoting civil
rights, economic self-reliance, and social
equality. They offer programs in education, job
training, housing, and entrepreneurship to em-
power residents.
The League helps our community achieve
these goals through a variety of program-
ming—from their Summer Enrichment Pro-
gram, which offers students the opportunity to
create, discover, and learn, to ADVANCE–U,
which offers a full range of essential economic
resources for residents to help them succeed
in the workforce, stabilize their finances and
build assets.
The Urban League of Broward County’s
commitment to the health and wellness of
Broward’s families is extensive and impres-
sive. And the pivotal role it plays for South
Florida families is invaluable. I am grateful to
the leadership and staff for their tireless efforts
to fight for the rights of my constituents and all
Americans to live with freedom, dignity, and
prosperity.
I thank President and CEO, Dr. Germaine
Smith-Baugh, and everyone at the Urban
League of Broward County for improving the
lives of those in Florida’s 25th Congressional
District and across Broward County. I con-
gratulate them on 50 remarkable years.
f
RECOGNIZING KYLA GUERRERO
FOR HER IMPRESSIVE GOLD
AWARD PROJECT
HON. JANELLE S. BYNUM
OFOREGON
INTHEHOUSEOFREPRESENTATIVES
Thursday, September 11, 2025
Ms. BYNUM. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to
recognize the impressive efforts of Kyla Guer-
rero, a constituent of mine from Bend, Oregon.
Kyla has used her Gold Award Girl Scout
project to tackle the issue of food waste, tak-
ing leftover food and repurposing it to sustain
a local farm. I am truly impressed by her inno-
vation and hard work. This creative compost
system keeps our community eco-friendly and

according to the U.S. Department of Agri-
culture. A Central Oregon Girl Scout is hop-
ing to change that by taking that waste and
using it to sustain a local farm. ‘‘I’ve always
had a passion for supporting environmental
efforts and I feel like this was a way I could
create a project that suits those passions,’’
Girl Scout Kyla Guerrero said. ‘‘And work-
ing with a local farm has been super fun.’’
Guerrero is one of two local Girl Scouts
working on a Gold Award Project. She’s
partnered with Around the Bend Farms to
get youth involved and make farming a little
more eco-friendly.
‘‘We’re creating this food scrap to compost
system where the food scrap waste from the
Bethlehem Inn kitchen gets delivered here
and turned into compost which is used for
the farm’s agriculture,’’ Guerrero said.
Those food scraps contain vital nutrients for
vegetables that would otherwise rot away in
a landfill. ‘‘By throwing those nutrients into
a compost pile and into that kind of system,
we can re-collect the nutrients and re-inte-
grate it into our soil to rebuild that cycle,’’
Urban Farm Manager Josh Lesko said.
‘‘Then, our plants are just re-feeding them-
selves and feeding us more in the future.’’
The compost system also helps keep the
farm eco-friendly. ‘‘We’re lowering the
amount of costs we’re putting in,’’ Lesko
said. ‘‘We’re lowering the amount of trans-
portation for things we need to pick up.
We’re letting the natural cycle do its thing
and kind of working alongside it.’’ But for
Guerrero, it’s starting to plant the seeds for
the next generation. ‘‘It’s a great oppor-
tunity to have high school students come
out and share this with their friends and be
like ‘oh there’s a farm here and we can all
help together.’ I really like that aspect of
it,’’ Guerrero said.
f
WELCOMING HIS ALL-HOLINESS
BARTHOLOMEW TO WASHINGTON,
D.C.
HON. SETH MOULTON
OFMASSACHUSETTS
INTHEHOUSEOFREPRESENTATIVES
Thursday, September 11, 2025
Mr. MOULTON. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to
welcome His All-Holiness Bartholomew to
Washington, D.C.
The Ecumenical Patriarch is the spiritual
leader of over 300 million Orthodox Christians
worldwide. Since 1991, he has served as the
Archbishop of Constantinople—New Rome
and Ecumenical Patriarch, a role that traces
its lineage to the earliest days of Christianity.
As the ‘‘first among equals’’ among Orthodox
Christian leaders, he has been a central figure
in promoting unity within Orthodoxy, religious
freedom globally, and constructive dialogue
among faiths.
Born on the island of Imvros, the Ecumeni-
cal Patriarch has spent his life in service to
both faith and humanity. He is internationally
recognized for his efforts to protect the envi-
ronment—earning the nickname ‘‘the Green
Patriarch’’—as well as for his work in advanc-
ing human rights, reconciliation among faiths,
and support for religious communities living
under persecution.

guished award at the intersection of faith and
science.
This visit is especially meaningful to the
many Greek Orthodox Americans in Massa-
chusetts and in my district. From churches in
Lynn, Peabody, and Salem, to communities
across the Commonwealth, Greek Americans
have contributed profoundly to the civic, cul-
tural, and spiritual fabric of our state. The Ecu-
menical Patriarch’s visit is a source of deep
pride for many of my constituents and a re-
minder of the enduring connection between
our country and the Ecumenical Patriarchate.
Once again, I welcome Ecumenical Patri-
arch to Washington and in honoring his dec-
ades of global leadership, his commitment to
peace and human dignity, and his enduring
contributions to our shared moral and spiritual
life.
f
HONORING HIS ALL-HOLINESS EC-
UMENICAL PATRIARCH BAR-
THOLOMEW
´
HON. ANDRE CARSON
OFINDIANA
INTHEHOUSEOFREPRESENTATIVES
Thursday, September 11, 2025
Mr. CARSON. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to
honor the extraordinary life and global leader-
ship of His All-Holiness Ecumenical Patriarch
Bartholomew. He is the spiritual leader of
more than 300 million Orthodox Christians
worldwide and a tireless advocate for peace,
human rights, and interfaith dialogue.
As the Ecumenical Patriarch of Constanti-
nople, recognized as the senior primate of the
Orthodox Christian world, His All-Holiness has
dedicated more than three decades to advanc-
ing religious freedom, protecting our planet,
and fostering understanding across faiths and
nations. This month, he visits Washington,
D.C., following his acceptance of the pres-
tigious Templeton Prize in New York City, join-
ing the ranks of past recipients such as Moth-
er Teresa, the Dalai Lama, and Archbishop
Desmond Tutu.
Throughout his tenure, Patriarch Bar-
tholomew has met with presidents, popes, and
parliaments across the globe, including mul-
tiple visits to the White House and the United
States Congress. He has worked coura-
geously to defend religious liberty despite on-
going challenges in his native Turkey. His
commitment to peace and reconciliation, de-
spite significant challenges, embodies the
highest ideals of global religious leadership.
Known also as ‘‘the Green Patriarch,’’ His
All-Holiness has been a pioneering voice on
environmental issues, organizing international
interfaith summits to confront climate change
and ecological degradation as spiritual and
moral imperatives. His leadership has inspired
generations to see care for the Earth as a sa-
cred responsibility.
Mr. Speaker, I ask my colleagues to join me
in recognizing His All-Holiness Ecumenical Pa-

PAGE 54

PERSONAL EXPLANATION
HON. BRADLEY SCOTT SCHNEIDER
OFILLINOIS
INTHEHOUSEOFREPRESENTATIVES
Thursday, September 11, 2025
Mr. SCHNEIDER. Mr. Speaker, though I
was present on the floor, I missed Roll Call
vote No. 246, on Congresswoman MACE’s
Amendment No. 14 to the defense authoriza-
tion bill. I intended to and would have voted
no.
This amendment cruelly denies transgender
service members access to gender-affirming
medical care through TRICARE. Every sailor
in our Navy begins at Naval Station Great
Lakes in my district, and they deserve the best
care this country can provide. To deny them
that care is to betray their service and lose our
moral compass.
f
WELCOMING HIS ALL-HOLINESS
ECUMENICAL PATRIARCH BAR-
THOLOMEW
HON. EUGENE SIMON VINDMAN
OFVIRGINIA
INTHEHOUSEOFREPRESENTATIVES
Thursday, September 11, 2025
Mr. VINDMAN. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to
honor and welcome His All-Holiness Ecumeni-
cal Patriarch Bartholomew to Washington,
D.C. He serves as the spiritual leader and Pri-
mus inter Pares (First among Equals) of Or-
thodox Christianity worldwide, a Church of 300
million people.
Later this month, His All-Holiness will visit
the United States to receive the Templeton
Prize, the world’s most prestigious inter-
national award at the intersection of religion
and science. This honor is awarded annually
to those who advance Sir John Templeton’s
vision of progress in religion through discov-
eries and insights that deepen our under-
standing across faiths. Since being elected
Ecumenical Patriarch, Bartholomew has been
a courageous voice for unity, religious free-
dom, and environmental stewardship. His
leadership has left a lasting mark on both the
Orthodox world and the entire global commu-
nity.
This will not be his first visit to the United
States. When he came in 1997, he was re-
ceived in the Oval Office by President Bill

Clinton and First Lady Hillary Clinton, who
hosted a White House reception in his honor.
He was also presented with the Congressional
Gold Medal in the U.S. Capitol Rotunda by
Speaker Newt Gingrich, a rare and distin-
guished honor. The State Department hosted
him in the Ben Franklin Room, and Vice Presi-
dent Al Gore welcomed him at a breakfast at
the Vice President’s Residence.
These visits remind us of the enduring spir-
itual and cultural bonds between the Ecumeni-
cal Patriarchate and the United States. As we
prepare to welcome His All-Holiness once
again, we recognize not just the leader of a
faith, but a global advocate for justice, peace,
and human dignity.
On behalf of Virginia’s 7th District Greek Or-
thodox community, it is an honor to welcome
him to Washington.
f
HONORING THE MARRIAGE OF AL-
EXANDRA HELLER AND JOSHUA
NARCISO
HON. RAUL RUIZ
OFCALIFORNIA
INTHEHOUSEOFREPRESENTATIVES
Thursday, September 11, 2025
Mr. RUIZ. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to rec-
ognize and honor the marriage of Alexandra
Heller and Joshua Narciso. It is with profound
joy and admiration that I extend my heartfelt
congratulations to them on this special occa-
sion. Their wedding day is not only a celebra-
tion of their love but also the beginning of a
journey built on partnership, resilience, and
shared purpose—their own love story, written
in real time.
I have had the privilege of watching Alex-
andra grow both personally and professionally
during her time in my office. I have seen first-
hand the determination and resilience she
brings to every challenge and the compassion
and thoughtfulness with which she approaches
each task. She has consistently shown an un-
wavering commitment to serving others, and I
could not be prouder of the leader and the
person she has become. Truly, she has
shown us all what it means to be fearless.
I will always remember the pivotal moments
she helped us achieve together. Her dedica-
tion and persistence were instrumental in ad-
vancing the designation of the Chuckwalla Na-
tional Monument, ensuring the protection of
our desert lands for future generations. She
also contributed greatly to the passage of the

PACT Act, landmark legislation that delivers
long-overdue health care and justice to our
Nation’s veterans. These accomplishments are
historic—proof that she has always had the
courage to speak now and fight for what mat-
ters.
What has impressed me most, however, is
not only her professional success, but also her
strength of character. She lifts others up, she
brings people together, and she embodies a
spirit of service and compassion that is rare
and deeply inspiring. These are the same
qualities that will sustain her in marriage—the
kind of love that makes every day feel like
daylight.
I also want to share a bit about how Alex-
andra and Joshua’s story began. On their first
three dates, Joshua playfully ‘‘swept Alex-
andra off her feet’’ with what sounded like a
whirlwind world tour to Barcelona, France, and
Italy. In reality, the story is just as charming:
they first met at a restaurant called Barcelona,
then attended a wine event at the French Em-
bassy, followed by a holiday party at the
Italian Embassy. When the world shut down,
Joshua showed up at Alexandra’s apartment
with a suitcase . . . and never left. It seems
they knew then that they were enchanted to
meet each other.
Marriage, like public service, is rooted in
trust, resilience, and love. It is about showing
up for one another through both triumphs and
challenges, through sunshine and midnights,
and walking forward together. The compas-
sion, joy, and strength she brings will help
build a solid foundation for her and Joshua.
I am excited to see the life they will create
together, grounded in respect, laughter, and
shared vision. May their marriage continue to
inspire, bringing joy to themselves and those
around them.
As they start this new chapter, may they
cherish the small moments as much as the
milestones. May they celebrate laughter, lean
on compassion in tough times, and nurture a
love that grows deeper with each year. Just as
her service has touched many lives, her part-
nership will be a reminder to us all that ‘‘You
Belong With Me’’ isn’t just a lyric, it is a prom-
ise.
It is a true honor to witness this day and to
celebrate their union. Please know that they
carry with them not only my warmest con-
gratulations but also my deepest admiration
and pride. May their marriage be blessed with
health, happiness, and a love that truly never
goes out of style.

PAGE 55

Thursday, September
D
Chamber Action
Routine Proceedings, pages S6561–
Measures Introduced: Thirty bills
tions were introduced, as follows: S.
S. Res. 384–385.
Measures Reported:
S. 1728, to amend the Employe
come Security Act of 1974 to expa
ship of the Advisory Council on E
and Pension Benefit Plans to includ
of employee ownership organiza
amendment in the nature of a substi
S. 2403, to amend the Employe
come Security Act of 1974 to provi
tion of adequate consideration for ce
stock, with an amendment in the
stitute.
Measures Considered:
National Defense Authorization
tinued consideration of S. 2296, to
priations for fiscal year 2026 for m
of the Department of Defense, for m
tion, and for defense activities of th
Energy, to prescribe military person
such fiscal year, taking action o
amendments and motions proposed
Pending:
Wicker/Reed Amendment Modifi
the nature of a substitute.
Wicker (for Ernst) Amendment
Amendment No. 3748), to require
General of the United States to con
casualty assistance and long-term car
Thune Amendment No. 3863
No. 3427), relating to the enactmen
Thune Amendment No. 3864
proposed to be stricken by Amend

11, 2025
Daily Digest
Senate
Thune Amend
No. 3864), relatin
–S6584
Motion to recom
s and two resolu-
Armed Services,
. 2767–2796, and
ment No. 3866, r
Pages S6574–75
Thune Amend
ee Retirement In-
tions) Amendmen
and the member- ment date.
Employee Welfare Thune Amend
de representatives No. 3867), relatin
ations, with an
itute.
En Bloc Conside
ee Retirement In-
Agreement: Sena
ide a clear defini-
377, authorizing
ertain closely held
tive Session of cer
nature of a sub-
Calendar.
Page S6574 During conside
also took the follo
By 52 yeas to 4
Act: Senate con-
fifths of those Se
o authorize appro-
having voted in t
military activities
motion to close fu
military construc-
he Department of
Senator Thune
nnel strengths for
vote by which clo
on the following
lution.
thereto:
By 52 yeas to 4
Pages S6561–62 agreed to the m
which cloture was
ied No. 3748, in
Page S6561 By 45 yeas to 5
t No. 3427 (to
rejected the rulin
e the Comptroller set by the Senate
nduct a study on only to the consid
re programs. tiple nominations
Page S6561 any kind. Subseq
(to Amendment appeal the ruling
nt date. threshold for clot
the en bloc consid
Page S6561
(to the language endar number on
dment No. 3748), those on Level 1

t
dment No. 3865 (to Amendment
ng to the enactment date.
Page S6561
mmit the bill to the Committee on
with instructions, Thune Amend-
relating to the enactment date.
Page S6561
dment No. 3867 (to (the instruc-
nt No. 3866), relating to the enact-
Page S6561
dment No. 3868 (to Amendment
ng to the enactment date.
Page S6561
eration of Certain Nominations—
ate resumed consideration of S. Res.
the en bloc consideration in Execu-
rtain nominations on the Executive
Pages S6564–69
eration of this measure today, Senate
owing action:
47 nays (Vote No. EX. 513), three-
enators duly chosen and sworn, not
the affirmative, Senate rejected the
urther debate on the resolution.
Pages S6564–69
entered a motion to reconsider the
oture was not invoked on the reso-
Page S6565
45 nays (Vote No. EX. 514), Senate
motion to reconsider the vote by
s not invoked on the resolution.
Pages S6564–69
53 nays (Vote No. EX. 515), Senate
ng of the Chair that the precedent
e on November 21, 2013, applied
deration of a nomination, not mul-
s and not to executive resolutions of
quently, Senator Thune motion to
g of the Chair was upheld, the
ture on an executive resolution for
deration of nominations with a cal-
the Executive Calendar, other than
of the Executive Schedule under 5

PAGE 56

By 53 yeas to 43 nays (Vote No.
upon reconsideration agreed to the
further debate on the resolution.
A unanimous-consent agreement
viding that at approximately 3 p.
September 15, 2025, Senate resume
the resolution, post-cloture, and
standing Rule XXII, at 5:30 p.m.
time be expired and Senate vote on
resolution; and that following dispos
lution, Senate vote on the motion
on the nomination of Stephen Mira
to be a Member of the Board of
Federal Reserve System for the un
fourteen years from February 1, 201
Miran Nomination—Cloture: Sena
eration of the nomination of Stephe
York, to be a Member of the Board
the Federal Reserve System for the
of fourteen years from February 1, 2
A motion was entered to close f
the nomination, and, in accordance
sions of Rule XXII of the Standi
Senate, a vote on cloture will occur
of S. Res. 377, En Bloc Consider
Nominations.
Prior to the consideration of this
ate took the following action:
Senate agreed to the motion to p
tive Session to consider the nominat
Executive Communications:
Executive Reports of Committees
Additional Cosponsors:
Statements on Introduced Bills/R
Additional Statements:
Amendments Submitted:
Authorities for Committees to Me
Record Votes: Four record votes w
(Total—516) Pag
Adjournment: Senate convened at
journed at 6:08 p.m., until 3 p.m.
tember 15, 2025. (For Senate’s pro
marks of the Acting Majority L
Record on page S6584.)

EX. 516), Senate Committee
e motion to close
Pages S6564–69 (Committees not listed d
was reached pro-
.m., on Monday, NOMINATION
e consideration of Committee on Arm
d that notwith- hearing to examin
., all post-cloture topher J. Mahone
n adoption of the grade of general
sition of the reso- Joint Chiefs of St
to invoke cloture answered question
an, of New York, BUSINESS MEE
Governors of the
Committee on Energ
nexpired term of
ordered favorably
12. Page S6583 items:
ate began consid- S. 1453, to con
en Miran, of New land in Salt Lake
d of Governors of S. 472, to ame
e unexpired term Lands Managemen
2012. establishment of
S. 909 and H.R
Pages S6562–64
retary of the Inte
further debate on
Paz County, Arizo
e with the provi-
The nomination
ing Rules of the
David LaCerte, o
upon disposition
of the Federal Ene
ration of Certain
NOMINATIONS
Pages S6562–64
nomination, Sen- Committee on Foreig
examine the nom
proceed to Execu- to be Ambassador
tion. Page S6562 introduced by Se
Rubio, Herschel
Pages S6573–74
sador to the Com
s: Page S6574 was introduced by
Louisiana, to be
Pages S6575–77
Refugees, and Mi
Resolutions:
Iowa, a Career Me
Pages S6577–79 Class of Counse
Pages S6572–73 Hashemite Kingd
ment of State, af
Pages S6579–83
swered questions i
eet: Page S6583
BUSINESS MEE
were taken today.
Committee on the J
ges S6565, S6567–68
ably reported the
10 a.m. and ad- of Maine, to be U
on Monday, Sep- First Circuit, Eri
ogram, see the re- be United States
Leader in today’s cuit, William W
trict Judge for t
Chad Meredith, t
for the Eastern D

e Meetings
did not meet)
med Services: Committee concluded a
ne the nomination of General Chris-
ey, USMC, for reappointment to the
and to be Vice Chairman of the
taff, after the nominee testified and
ns in his own behalf.
ETING
gy and Natural Resources: Committee
y reported the following business
nfirm the use of certain non-Federal
City, Utah, for public purposes;
end the Omnibus Parks and Public
nt Act of 1996 to provide for the
a Ski Area Fee Retention Account;
R. 1043, bills to authorize the Sec-
erior to convey certain land to La
ona; and
ns of Laura Swett, of Virginia, and
of Louisiana, both to be a Member
ergy Regulatory Commission.
S
gn Relations: Concluded a hearing to
minations of Sergio Gor, of Florida,
r to the Republic of India, who was
enator Hagerty and former Senator
Walker, of Georgia, to be Ambas-
mmonwealth of The Bahamas, who
y Senator Cruz, Andrew Veprek, of
an Assistant Secretary (Population,
igration), and James Holtsnider, of
ember of the Senior Foreign Service,
elor, to be Ambassador to the
dom of Jordan, all of the Depart-
fter the nominees testified and an-
in their own behalf.
ETING
Judiciary: Committee ordered favor-
nominations of Joshua D. Dunlap,
United States Circuit Judge for the
ic Chunyee Tung, of California, to
Circuit Judge for the Ninth Cir-
W. Mercer, to be United States Dis-
the District of Montana, Stephen
to be United States District Judge
District of Kentucky, Arch Capito,

PAGE 57

the Western District of Tennessee
four years, Matthew Harvey, to be U
torney for the Northern District o
for the term of four years, John
United States Attorney for the Nor
Florida for the term of four years,
h
Hous
Chamber Action
Public Bills and Resolutions Intr
lic bills, H.R. 5295–5341; and 9
Res. 120–121; and H. Res. 699–
duced.
Additional Cosponsors:
Reports Filed: Reports were filed
H.R. 3109, to require the Secret
direct the National Petroleum Coun
port with respect to petrochemical
United States, and for other pur
119–267);
H.R. 3617, to amend the Depar
Organization Act to secure the supp
ergy resources, including critical m
materials, and for other purposes,
ment (H. Rept. 119–268);
H.R. 1949, to repeal restriction
and import of natural gas (H. Rept.
H.R. 4312, to protect the name,
ness rights of student athletes and
competition with respect to interco
and for other purposes, with an
Rept. 119–270, Part 1);
H.R. 4312, to protect the name,
ness rights of student athletes and
competition with respect to interco
and for other purposes, with an
Rept. 119–270, Part 2); and
H.R. 5304, making appropriation
ments of Labor, Health and Hum
Education, and related agencies fo
ending September 30, 2026, and fo
(H. Rept. 119–271).
Military Construction, Veterans A
lated Agencies Appropriations A
tion to Instruct Conferees: The
agree to the DeLauro motion to inst

e for the term of United States Att
United States At- Iowa for the term
of West Virginia United States Att
n Heekin, to be Islands for the
rthern District of Toepfer, to be Un
Leif Olson, to be ern District of Oh
h
se of Representa
30, 2026, by a ye
nays, Roll No. 2
roduced: 47 pub- September 10th.
resolutions, H.J.
Stop Illegal Ent
–705, were intro-
3486, to amend
Pages H4263–65 Act to increase pe
Pages H4266–67 enter and reenter
moved, by a yea-
today as follows:
nays, Roll No. 26
tary of Energy to
Pursuant to th
ncil to issue a re-
ture of a substitut
refineries in the
on the Judiciary
rposes (H. Rept.
by the amendme
119–255, shall be
rtment of Energy
H. Res. 682, t
ply of critical en-
of the bills (H.R.
minerals and other
to Tuesday, Septe
with an amend-
Meeting Hour: A
ns on the export when the House
. 119–269); at noon on Mond
, image, and like- ing-hour debate.
d to promote fair Military Constru
ollegiate athletics, lated Agencies
amendment (H. pointment of C
Chair appointed
, image, and like- 3944, making ap
d to promote fair tion, the Departm
ollegiate athletics, agencies for the
amendment (H. 2026: Representa
Harris of (MD),
ns for the Depart- Rutherford, Cline
man Services, and Bice, Scott Fran
or the fiscal year Moore (WV), D
or other purposes Wasserman Schu
Pages H4262–63 Espaillat, Underw
Affairs, and Re-
Act, 2026—Mo- Select Subcomm
House failed to ing Questions S
truct conferees on Appointment: T

torney for the Northern District of
m of four years, Adam Sleeper, to be
torney for the District of the Virgin
term of four years, and David
nited States Attorney for the North-
hio for the term of four years.
h
atives
ea-and-nay vote of 211 yeas to 213
263. Consideration began yesterday,
Pages H4249–50
try Act: The House passed H.R.
the Immigration and Nationality
enalties for individuals who illegally
r the United States after being re-
-and-nay vote of 226 yeas to 197
64. Pages H4242–49, H4250
he Rule, the amendment in the na-
te recommended by the Committee
now printed in the bill, modified
ent printed in part B of H. Rept.
e considered as adopted. Page H4242
the rule providing for consideration
3838) and (H.R. 3486) was agreed
ember 9th.
Agreed by unanimous consent that
adjourns today, it adjourn to meet
day, September 15, 2025 for morn-
Page H4250
uction, Veterans Affairs, and Re-
Appropriations Act, 2026—Ap-
Conferees: Without objection, the
the following conferees on H.R.
ppropriations for military construc-
ment of Veterans Affairs, and related
fiscal year ending September 30,
atives Cole, Aderholt, Carter (TX),
, Valadao, Newhouse, Moolenaar,
e, Hinson, Letlow, Guest, Zinke,
nklin (FL), Lalata, Strong, Maloy,
DeLauro, Hoyer, Kaptur, Bishop,
ultz, Cuellar, Pingree, Quigley,
wood, Levin, Escobar, and Perez.
Page H4258
mittee to Investigate the Remain-
Surrounding January 6, 2021—
The Chair announced the Speaker’s

PAGE 58

Loudermilk, Chair; Representatives
(LA), Nehls, Hageman, Swalwell
Moskowitz.
Senate Referrals: S. 93 was held at
was held at the desk. S. 725 was h
S. 759 was held at the desk.
Senate Message: Message received
appears on page H4251.
Quorum Calls—Votes: Two yea-a
veloped during the proceedings of
on pages H4249–50 and H4250.
Adjournment: The House met at
journed at 12:45 p.m.
Committee Meetings
No hearings were held.
Joint Meetings
No joint committee meetings wer

Griffith, Higgins COMMITTEE
l, Crockett, and SEP
Page H4258
(Committee meet
t the desk. S. 306
held at the desk.
No meetings/hea
Page H4251
from the Senate
Committee on Rul
and-nay votes de- 1047, the ‘‘Guaran
today and appear connection of Disp
‘‘Promoting Cross-
H.R. 3015, the ‘‘N
t 9 a.m. and ad-
Act’’; H.R. 4922, t
5143, the ‘‘District
of 2025’’; H.R. 514
may be tried as an
the District of Col
5125, the ‘‘Distric
Reform Act of 2025
Committee on Vete
nology Modernizati
Care Through Arti
re held. non.

E MEETINGS FOR MONDAY,
PTEMBER 15, 2025
tings are open unless otherwise indicated)
Senate
arings scheduled.
House
les, Full Committee, hearing on H.R.
nteeing Reliability through the Inter-
patchable Power Act’’; H.R. 3062, the
-border Energy Infrastructure Act’’;
National Coal Council Reestablishment
the ‘‘DC CRIMES Act of 2025’’; H.R.
t of Columbia Policing Protection Act
40, to lower the age at which a minor
n adult for certain criminal offenses in
lumbia to 14 years of age; and H.R.
ct of Columbia Judicial Nominations
5’’, 4 p.m., H–313 Capitol.
erans’ Affairs, Subcommittee on Tech-
ion, hearing entitled ‘‘Advancing VA
ificial Intelligence’’, 3 p.m., 360 Can-

PAGE 59

Next Meeting of the SENA
3 p.m., Monday, Septemb
Senate Chamber
Program for Monday: Senate will res
of S. Res. 377, En Bloc Consideration
nations, with a vote on adoption thereo
Following which, Senate will vote on
voke cloture on the nomination of S
New York, to be a Member of the B
of the Federal Reserve System.
Senators should expect additional ro
proximately 8 p.m.
Extensio
HOUSE
Bynum, Janelle S., Ore., E840
Carson, Andre´, Ind., E840
Crockett, Jasmine, Tex., E839
Congression
EPLURIBUS UNUM
printed pursuant to directions
States Code, and published for
two or more unusually small consecutive issu
the U.S. Government Publishing Office, at w
Congressional Record is published. For more i
Phone 202–512–1800, or 866–512–1800 (toll-free).
Government Online Bookstore at: bookstor
63197–9000, or phone orders to 866–512–1800 (to
payable to the Superintendent of Documents,
each session of Congress, the daily Congression
in individual parts or by sets. ¶With the exce
the Congressional Record.
POSTMASTER: Send address changes to the

ATE Next Meeting of t
ber 15 12 noo
sume consideration Program for Mond
n of Certain Nomi-
on at 5:30 p.m.
n the motion to in-
Stephen Miran, of
Board of Governors
oll call votes at ap-
ons of Remarks, as inserted in th
Langworthy, Nicholas A., N.Y., E839 T
Lee, Susie, Nev., E839 V
Moulton, Seth, Mass., E840 W
Ruiz, Raul, Calif., E841
Schneider, Bradley Scott, Ill., E841
nal Record
The Congressional Re
is paid at Washington
of Congress, as repo
of the Joint Committee on Printing as authorized
r each day that one or both Houses are in sessio
ues are printed one time. ¶Public access to the Co
www.govinfo.gov, free of charge to the user. The
information, contact the GPO Customer Contact
. E-Mail, contactcenter@gpo.gov. ¶To place an ord
re.gpo.gov. Mail orders to: Superintendent of D
oll-free), 202–512–1800 (D.C. area), or fax to 202–5
, or use VISA, MasterCard, Discover, American E
nal Record is revised, printed, permanently bound a
eption of copyrighted articles, there are no restri
e Superintendent of Documents, Congressional R

the HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
on, Monday, September 15
House Chamber
day: To be announced.
his issue
Thompson, Bennie G., Miss., E839
Vindman, Eugene Simon, Va., E841
Wasserman Schultz, Debbie, Fla., E840
ecord (USPS 087–390). The Periodicals postage
n, D.C. The public proceedings of each House
orted by the Official Reporters thereof, are
d by appropriate provisions of Title 44, United
on, excepting very infrequent instances when
ongressional Record is available online through
information is updated online each day the
t Center, U.S. Government Publishing Office.
der for any of these products, visit the U.S.
Documents, P.O. Box 979050, St. Louis, MO
512–2104. Remit check or money order, made
Express, or GPO Deposit Account. ¶Following
and sold by the Superintendent of Documents
ictions on the republication of material from
Record, U.S. Government Publishing Office,

